ANATOMY OF THE LYMPHATIC SYSTEM. 16 Eauvier the stomata are as a rule not free openings, but are in the normal condition plugged up by a granular protoplasmic cell. This I regard as incorrect. The protoplasmic mass that Ranvier finds occupying tlie stoma is probably one or more of those endothelial cells belonging to the special lining of the stomatous canal (such as I have figured and described over and over again), which endothelial cells have become detached from the wall of the stomatous canal in consequence of the preparation liaving been stretched excessively. In this opinion I am confirmed, not only by my own experience of stretched and un- stretched membranes, but by Eanvier's drawings themselves ; for the appearance of the thick and sharply defined wall with which his stomata are surrounded is clearly a result of the membrane having been stretched too much. In carefully prepared specimens the ap- pearance is not met with. Just the opposite is to be found in the description given by Tourneux '° of the stomata of the cisterna lymph- atica magna. This author maintains that the so-called stomata of the septum cisternse are merely pits in that membrane, which are lined by special granular cells; and he thinks they resemble secret- ing glands lined by epithelium. This assertion can be accounted for by bearing in mind that in a shrunken septum, where the sto- mata are collapsed, they certainly have the appearance of pits lined by granular cells; these latter are the granular cells that have been described by me as forming the special lining of the stomatous canals. That this view of Tom-neux is erroneous can be shown in a well-pre- pared septum, where the stomatous canals, penetrating the septum and lined by a special layer of granular endothelial cells, may be easily recognised, both on the peritoneal and on the cisternal surface. (See Fig. 3, Part I. of this work.) And, in addition to this, it can be easily shown that formed particles may penetrate freely from the peritoneal cavity into the cisterna, the septum itself being uninjured. Facts bearing out this point have been already mentioned by Dogiel and Schweigger-Seidel; in addition to these I will mention an observa- tion that may be repeated very easily. A male frog is killed, its peri- toneal cavity opened and the septum cisternas exposed by pushing the intestine to the opposite side; if on the peritoneal surface of the septum blood is allowed to drop from a capillary glass tube, it is seen