SUmiARY OF THE LYMPHATICS OP THE LUNG. 35 fact lymphoid cells may migrate, mider pathological conditions, from the alveolar cavities into these lymphatics. Fig. 11 shows the rela- tion of the interalveolar connective-tissue cell-plates to the alveolar cavities or their lining epithelium respectively. If the wall of an alveolus of a silver preparation, as in Fig. 13 b, is viewed from the surface, small circular figures are seen between the lining epithelial cells indicated by the well-known .silver lines ; from what has been stated just now it is very probable that these small figures correspond to the pseudostomata of Fig. 11. The lymph-paths of the lung may be now summarized as follows: the radicles of the lymphatic system of the lung are distributed over three different parts: (1) the walls of the alveoli, (2) the walls of the bronchi, and (3) the pulmonary pleura. The first system is repre- sented by irregular lacunae and anastomosing canals, being the spaces for the branched connective-tissue corpuscles; it gives origin to lymphatic vessels which are provided with a special endothelial wall According to their position the latter may be regarded, in accordance with the views of previous authors, as superficial and deep lymphatics • the former are situated on the surface of the Imigsuhpleuml lym- Vhatics—^n^ form a network, the efferent trunks of which run along the pulmonary ligaments towards the root of the lung; the lattei- remain in the substance of the kmg, and accompany the branches of the pulmonary artery and Yem-jpevivasmlar lymphatics. One of the chief characters of the latter, especially of those situated around the arteries, is their being replaced in some parts by a system of lymphatic spaces, i.e. larger or smaller spaces between the connective- tissue fasciculi, and lined by connective-tissue corpuscles, arranged like a true endotheliimi. Around the large blood-vessels these lymph- atic vessels form a network, the efferent trunks of which run towards the root of the limg. The second system of radicles, viz. that situated in the wall of the bronchi, IS represented by irregular lacuna and anastomosing canals m the mucosa, in the more external parts, i.e. in the adventitia by smaller or larger spaces, owing to the different arrangement of the connective-tissue fascicuK; both contain, or, more correctly speaking.