EADICLES OP PERIBEONCHIAL LYMPHATICS. 25 observers, that in the serous membranes both these forms exist; on the one hand we find places where the interfascicular lymph canal system is made up of lacunse, anastomosing with each other by cana- liculi, and thus resembling the lymph-canalicular system of the cornea, while in other places the lymph-canalicular system is more like a system of large spaces or lacunae. In the former there lie flattened connective-tissue corpuscles of the same general outline as those of the lymph-canalicular system, being composed, namely, of a cell body and processes anastomosing with each other; the latter, again, are lined by rows of connective-tissue corpuscles perfectly resembling an endothelium. Finally, I have drawn attention to the inter- mediate and transitional condition of these two kinds of lymph- spaces and their respective cell linings. This relation between the interfascicular lymph-canalicular system and its lining con- nective-tissue corpuscles I have found to obtain also in the bronchi; that is to say, in the loose tissue of the adventitia the lymph-canalicular system is represented by large interfascicular spaces lined by connective-tissue corpuscles that are perfectly identical with endothelial cells, whereas in the denser mucosa the connective-tissue corpuscles have more the shape of branched cells. In determining the existence of branched cells in those situations, there is a source of fallacy that may be mentioned. It is not uncommon to get, in vertical sections, and more especially if the tissue of the matrix has shrunk, an appearance as if of branched cells, which is really depen- dent on the section passing through the endothelial membrane. Com- parison of horizontal sections will remove the ambiguity in such cases. Nevertheless, whether the connective-cells lying in the inter- fascicular lymph-spaces are branched or unbranched, it is quite clear that they are in continuity with the endothelium of lymphatic vessels. What has been asserted hitherto about the interfascicular lymph-canalicular system of the bronchi is in perfect agreement with the description given by me for the serous membranes in the First Part of this work, and also with what I said in my paper on Sheep Pox ('Transactions of the Royal Society of London,' 1874) with regard to the interfascicular lymph-system of the skin. It is also in