GEEMINATION OF ENDOTHELIUM. 39 distance from the free surface into that centre, so as to form a regular phig for it. The simplest explanation of the last pheno- menon is, to my mind, this : the centre of the cell-group represents a stoma through -vvhich absorption is going on, and fibrin of the pleuritic exudation is found just in the condition of being pumped into that stoma. This suggestion is supported by the fact that in some instances the fibrin baud can be traced into the depth for some distance. I must mention here also the occui'rence of small groups of germinating endothelial cells which apparently do not possess the arrangement above mentioned, viz. round a distinct central stoma; but here the possibility is not excluded that there is nevertheless a stoma in the centre of the group, .only in a collapsed condition. All these changes are of much greater intensity, and therefore much more distinct, if the plemitis has become chronic. So it is found in rabbits and guinea-pigs that do not die dming the acute stage, but sm-vive this stage, and become affected with chronic pyaemia. In this latter condition the costal pleura becomes the seat of small abscesses, and so does the mediastinal pleura. The lungs both of rabbits and g-uinea-pigs present all the appearances of inter- stitial pneumonia; the lung-tissue contains numerous nodules and patches chiefly composed of round cells; they are at first firm, but gradually soften so as to form abscesses, the bronchi showing at the same time catarrhal inflammation. The bronchial glands also contain abscesses in some instances. In guinea-pigs abscesses are found occasionally also in the omentum, and then also the liver con- tains small nodules and large irregular patches in different stages of transformation into abscesses. The above-mentioned germination of the endothelium around stomata is more distinct in chronic pleuritis than in acute. In Fig. 1 A I have represented these appearances; the preparation was made from the lung of a rabbit, in which chronic pyaemia had been in- duced after injecting into its pleural cavity a small quantity of pus obtained from a pyajmic abscess of another rabbit. The best specimens I have seen with regard to the germination of the endo- thelium around the stomata were obtained from the lungs of guinea-