ANAT03IY OF THE LYMPHATIC SYSTEM. 76 structure, although they are Dot pathognomic, and a great deal of discussion has been devoted to their origin. The reader will remem- ber that they have been said by different observers to originate from different parts of the tissue in which they are found. Thus they have been represented to originate from nuclei of capillary vessels, from epithelial cells (liver-cells in the liver), from connective-tissue cells, from an amorphous material within blood-vessels, from endo- thelium of lymphatics, and, finally, it has been said (Hering) that they are not cells at all, but an amorphous material filling up lymphatic tubes. We come now to discuss the origin of giant cells in tubercles of the kmg only. With their mode of origin in tubercles of other organs we have nothing to do. I must accentuate this, as my ex- perience teaches me that not only giant cells in general, but also those of tubercles in particular, have a different mode of origin in different organs. Now with regard to the giant cells occurring in tubercles of the lung in, as I have endeavom'ed to show, certain stages of acute mili- ary tuberculosis, I presume it is evident, from a comparison of the structure of tubercle in its different stages, as described above, that there exist only two possibilities of the mode of origin of the giant cells, viz. either from lymphoid corpuscles—i.e. coloiuless blood- corpuscles, probably displaced from blood-vessels into the alveolar cavities in an early stage—or from epithelial cells lining the alveolar cavities. In favour of the first mode of origin is the observation of Ziegler (see on a former page), that colourless blood-corpuscles may, under certain conditions, give rise to giant cells ; and the almost constant occurrence of groups of lymphoid cells, in the first stages of acute miliary tuberculosis, in the centre of the alveoli. The second mode of origin—viz. that from alveolar epithelium— is, on the other hand, supported by a great amount of what appears to me to be strong evidence indeed. First and uppermost stands the fact that we find all intermediate forms between well-developed giant cells and nucleated cells of an undoubted epithelial character ; secondly, the observation of giant cells originating from single epi- thelial cells, or from a fuaion of such in the alveoli of the lung in