69 BUHL'S VIEW OF IVULIAHY TUBERCLE. Hence the reticulum becomes enlarged, and the peripheral con- nective-tissue zone thickened by the increase of the corpuscles embedded in it. ' This augmentation is, however, very limited, lasting only for a short period ; for its substratum being very soon exhausted, the giant cell perishes, partly by fatty degeneration, partly by becoming hard and horny and forming occasionally laminated concretions (Schuppel). The other cells of the reticulum comport themselves in a similar manner; they undergo fatty degeneration. But the cytoid bodies contribute to the hypertrophy of the connective-tissue zone, which draws closer and closer round the degenerated central cells.' With regard to the origin of the giant cells. Buhl summarises (p. 101) thus :— ' E. Wagner has . . . thought himself justified in assuming that they (giant cells in the liver) result from a multiplication of nuclei of the liver-cells. . . . (According to Colberg from a multiplication of the nuclei of capillary blood-vessels.) . . . ' Most commonly it is believed that the cellular elements of the connective tissue give origin to the giant cells, and hence also to the tubercular lymphoma. The assertion of Langhanns that oi^t of spindle-cells are formed protoplasmic masses in which only nuclei are produced, has great weight. Whereas, in the formation of normal lymphoid organs, or in their enlargement by normal excita- tions . . . only cytoid bodies are produced; abnormal excitations induce the generation of giant cells. ' The same claim is laid by the endothelium of the lymphatic sheaths of fine arteries, the endothelium of lymphatic vessels (Kind- fleisch, Klebs), and perhaps also of fine veins.' Buhl, with many recent histologists, regards all these structures as belonging to the same group of tissues, and,, inferring from this, he requires ' no more than the presence, at the seat of the irritation, of a pre-existing element of the group of connective-tissue corpuscles and endothelium . . . out of which the lymphatic new growth (tubercle) is developed and further organised.' Buhl therefore rejects the theory of Schiippel, ' who supposes the formation of tubercle to take place most commonly within blood-vessels, uud who