44 ANATOMY OF THE LYMPHATIC SYSTEM. in some places the lymphoid cells filling the lymphatics have nothing to do with the germination of the endothelium of the lymph- atics, is proved by the fact, that in those places, neither the endo- thelium of the surface of the pleura, nor that of the lymphatics, shows any marked alteration. Some of the lymphatics of the pleura which are filled with lymphoid cells stand in a very close relation to the nodular and patch-like growths of the superficial parts of the lung itself, as mentioned above. The fact is, there are branches of lymphatics, filled with lymphoid cells, which indirectly take part in the formation of these growths. The reader will remember that the lymphatics of the pleura take up capillary branches originating in the alveolar septa of the superficial parts of the lung. Now, if one of those nodular growths is examined in an early state of development, i.e. in a lung in which there are only a few small nodules, and which otherwise shows no signs of advanced morbid changes, it will be noticed that each nodule is composed of a meshwork of more or less broad trabeculas, and of corresponding smaller or larger spaces. The trabeculsB are seen to be composed either solely of lymphoid cells or of a tissue resembling adenoid tissue, i.e. a reticulum of fibres, in the meshes of which are contained lymphoid cells. Where the trabeciilas appear to be composed solely of lymphoid cells, they possess something like a bordering endothelial wall, thus resembling a tube whose wall is an endothelial membrane and whose lumen is filled with lymphoid cells. These structures can be traced very distinctly up to the branches of the subpleural lymphatics. From this it is very probable that the trabeculas are the interalveolar rootlets of the subpleural lymphatics, partly filled with lymphoid cells, and partly already converted into cords of adenoid tissue. In later stages the conversion of lymphatic vessels, at first only filled with lymphoid cells, into cords of adenoid tissue, can be made out also in branches of the subpleural plexus itself; and in these it is found that the adenoid reticulum is in direct continuity with the original endothelial wall of the lymphatic ; that is to say, that the original endothelium of tlie lymphatic grows as a reticulum of fine fibres between the lymph-cor- puscles filling the lumen, and thus converting the vessel into a cord ■ of adenoid tissue. In the First Part of this work such adenoid cords