PEEIJ3E0NCHIAL LYMl'H-FOLLICLES. 23 follicle. Tlitis we have here precisely the same relations as described by me with regard to the serous membranes, i.e. the development of lymphatic follicles in the wall of a lymphatic vessel outside its lumen. These follicles I have called perilymphangeal follicles, and the same name may be applied to those of the bronchial walls. In small bronchi, which are devoid of cartilage, lymph-follicles are to be met with, extending not only close up to the muscular coat, but also protruding through this latter into the proper mucosa, i.e. into the layer between the epithelium and the muscularis. In the latter case also, the lymph-sinus surrounding the follicle is seen to extend into the muscularis. These lymphatic follicles in the bronchial walls are therefore in every respect analogous to the lymph-follicles found in other mucous membranes, e.g. in. the tonsils and in the intestine, as well as in the cortical part of true lymphatic glands {viz. mesenteric glands, inguinal glands, &c.). I have met with lymphatic follicles in the wall of bronchi not only in the lung of guinea-pigs, but also in that of rabbits. There seems to be, however, a slight difference in the case of those two animals. In the lung of rabbits the follicles are less numerous, and are of a less dense structure than in that of guinea-pigs; while in the latter the follicles have a complete resemblance, as regards structure, to those commonly found in other parts, appearing, in preparations not shaken out, to be composed merely of a dense assemblage of nucleated lymphoid cells ; in the lung of the rabbit, on the other hand, they seem to be more spongy, showing a reticulum with wider meshes, and with much fewer lymph-corpuscles in them than is the case in ordinary adenoid tissue. The lymphatic vessels belonging to the bronchial adventitia are, as has been already mentioned, chiefly supplied by rootlets that lie in the internal strata of the bronchial wall. These rootlets are lymphatic branches, which in large bronchi have still distinctly the character of lymphatic tubes, as can be shown in injected pre- parations. Also in small bronchi there are here and there such short branches met with, emerging from between the muscular coat and taking a somewhat oblique course towards one of the peri- bronchial lymphatics. As a general rule, however, such lymphatic