( 6 ) Bhao. In its general acceptation, this word is of very vague import, mean- ing no more than sickness ; the Mahouts, however, use it in a much more definite sense restricting its application, with one exception, to diseases of the brain or of the lungs, as explained at page 9. FEVER. History.—This ailment is marked by heat of surface, cold ears; the pulse, (see page 64 for information regarding the pulse,) which is to be felt behind the ears, about 70 or 80 in a minute. It generally commences with rigours and restlessness. When the hot stage supervenes, the animal is very desirous to throw water over its body by means of its trunk ; there is much thirst, the urine, by the appearance of which, in regard to colour and quantity, the Mahouts infer the degree of fever, is either reddish and scanty, indicative of a severe attack, or of a whitish and muddy appearance, which characterizes the milder form. It is rare that fever exists uncomplicated with local ailment; when it does, it usually arises from a sudden change of temperature of body as when heated, suddenly being chilled by fording a river, being washed after coming off a march before time has been allowed to cool, &c. Treatment.—In its milder degree fever may abate of itself, or be remov- ed by free purgation. But in aggravated cases marked by much restless- ness, fiery eye, attempts to get loose, in short madness, bleeding must be resorted to; instructions for performing which will be found at page 65; bleed to 1 or 1^ gallon, and repeat if the symptoms have not considerably abated Give six ounces of aloes along with some rice made up in the form in which the “ratib” is given ; or if the animal refuse to take this medicine, which is sometimes the case, give it four or six drachms of croton oil seeds mixed with some rice, in the manner just alluded to. The ratib or allowance of rice, ought to be stopped in the severe cases, and if a choice of fodder can be commanded, grass is to be preferred to branches of either of the trees usually given, the former being less stimulating. ZAARBAHD. History.—This disease commences with febrile symptoms, but usually these are unobserved, and the ailment of the animal is not brought to notice by the Mahout till the characteristic and prominent symptom of the disease is developed, namely, swelling of the parotid glands. These glands which secrete the saliva, are situated on either side of the neck, behind the lower part of the ears, and in health, do not project beyond the general contour of