( 13 ) impacted with masticated food. The animal shews evident symptoms of much distress, but never becomes delirious. If not relieved after a variable period varying from two to four days, the animal dies, having previously been deadly cold over the whole surface for several hours. Dissection will shew the gullet mortified in several places and to be impacted throughout from pharynx to diaphragm with solid masticated food. In one case, so considerable was this impaction, that when a portion of the more healthy part of the gullet was laid open, the edges of the incision retracted upwards of two inches. In two cases of this affection which came under my notice none of the other organs of either carcase shewed any appearance of previously existing disease, so it is clear that this impaction of the gullet, or rather the consequent mortification, was the cause of death. After the irritability of the stomach subsides, it would appear that spasmodic action of the diaphragm supervened, obstructing the permeability of that portion of the gullet which passes through it, that impaction of the food then commenced and continued until the muscular power of the oesophagus became paralyzed, when inflammation, and finally mortification, followed. According to the experience of the Mahouts this disease almost uniformly proves fatal, it may show itself equally during any portion of the year. The animal is liable to be seized with it if washed immediately after coming off a journey when he is heated. Treatment.—When this disease supervenes no time should be lost in bleeding the animal freely. It ought then to be well fomented over the trunk ; vide page 35 for instructions regarding fomentations. This practice is based on the well established powers of depletion over spasmodic affections, of which the present doubtless is one, at least at the commencement. 2d. The animal ought most rigorously to be prevented eating any solid food, until every symptom or tendency of vomiting has disappeared. The benefit of withholding solid food under the circumstances just mentioned arises from this, that spasm from the lower part of the gullet exists, which prevents the passage of food into the stomach, consequently when the animal swallows, the food swallowed becomes impacted in the gullet throughout its whole extent ; palsy of this organ arises from over distension. It inflames and mortifies, and death doubtless is the result of the latter process. The adjusting powers of the animal’s constitution might overcome the primary spasmodic disorder, but are evidently unable to overcome the paralysing effects of the stuffing of the gullet, and by consequence are unable to ward off the subsequent mortal process. D