( 28 ) sions. 4th. Over the whole is placed the jhool, which is a cloth consisting of gunny. 5th. A rope about an inch in diameter, by which the above are fixed on the back—one end of this rope is converted into a loop, sufficiently large nearly to surround the body of the animal and the pads. It is tied on the top, thence passed singly round the neck, then along the upper sides of the pads, then below the tail, and finally tied again at the place of first knot on the top. The parts which pass below the belly and below the tail, are sheathed with leather, to prevent abrasion from so narrow a body as a rope. Of this furniture, it is the gunny only that rots from exposure to wet, and keeping in mind its liability so to do, a very important question suggests itself, seeing the efficiency of the animal is essentially involved therein, w hether some more durable substance could not be substituted for this gunny, if it cannot be, by some process, made more durable. In order to preserve nets from rotting by immersion in wTater, fishermen in Britain steep their nets in a decoction of oak bark ; the nets are thereby saturated with the tanning principle, which greatly adds to their durability. I understand the fishermen of this country also submit their nets to a similar process for a similar object. The bark of the Cassia Auricolata being the substance used in India, instead of oak bark as in Britain. Would it not therefore prove beneficial to submit the gunny to a similar process with a view to add to its durability? or how far would it be advantageous to substitute for it, leather or tarpaulin, i. e. canvas saturated with tar ? Comparatively little importance is involved in this subject in times of peace, but in reference to a Force moving beyond the Frontier, more especially when difficulties for the renovation of the old pads may exist, it becomes one of considerable impor- tance. It appears to me that considerable improvement might be effected in res- pect to the manner of securing these pads on the animal’s back ; this, as just mentioned, is effected by means of a rope : now, although the double fold of rope, which by way of belly-band passes below the animal, is defended by a sheathing of leather, this is by no means a perfect security, for frequently w hen the animal is on a long march, the part of the body on which the rope presses becomes inflamed, the same injury occurs to the part of the neck pressed on by the rope which passes around it, and also to the part of the body below the tail, though not so frequently as the lower part of the belly. With the view to defend this latter part from injury, it occurs to me that the followin0, arrangement wTould be more efficient than the one at present in O O use of double rope and leather sheath.