( 8 ) about six weeks subsequently to coming under treatment. It was received from Coiinbatoor, in the jungles of which district it had been caught. With the exception of the swelling of the parotid glands this disease resembles very much in its symptoms, and the appearances shewn by dissec- tion, the acute form of the disease to which in the Northern Circars, the human subject is obnoxious, known by the name of Beriberi, and it is a singu- lar fact that many of the Horses belonging to the Officers of the Goomsur Force died from a disease of nearly parallel symptoms. The disease appears to be an affection of the spinal canal, and to consist in an accumulation of fluid therein, more or less rapidly, and variously situated as to place of spine. When the accumulation occurs near the head, the progress of the disease to a fatal termination is rapid; but when the fluid is originally situate near the haunch and thence spreads upwards, the disease is less speedy in its progress and more within the range of treatment. Treatment.—Bleeding in this disease is of unquestionable utility. The progress of the disease to a fatal termination in one of the cases in which it was largely practised was decidedly impeded thereby—marked mitigation of the symptoms followed each recourse to it, and had the animal come under treatment soon after the commencement of the disease, good grounds exist for the supposition that a cure would have resulted. Free purgation ought also to be practised. Give aloes either alone or in combination with croton oil seeds. Aloes, 4 to 6 drachms. Croton Seeds, 2 to 4 drachms. or an ounce of croton seeds alone may be given and repeated the following day, if the animal refuse to take aloes : see under the head Purgative Medicines, page 38, for instructions regarding the exhibition of Purgative Medicines. The animal ought to be well fomented along its spine, for performing which operation instruction will be found in page 35. Three alterative doses of calomel are to be given, half a drachm or a drachm daily,—the first two or three doses being of the latter quantity. The swelling below the abdomen, when very large, may be advantage- ously punctured in several places, when a large quantity of fluid will ooze out ; five gallons have thus been drawn off in 12 hours.