( 22 ) caused the under part of the foot to mortify, and this mortification occasioned the death of the animal, a result which, early judicious treatment could have doubtless prevented. BOOMANEE OR BUMBNEE. History.—This which is a rare affection consists in the loss of a great or less portion of the tail, sometimes the whole, by a slow process of mortification, commencing at the extremity of the tail, and successively attacking the higher parts, joint by joint. If not interfered with by remedies, it will even- tually remove the whole of the tail, but attack no other part of the animal, having then expended itself. It does not interfere with the animal’s capa- bility for duty during its continuance, and does not prove fatal. The animal is usually in good condition when this affection shews itself. The cause of it is not evident. Treatment.—The treatment consists in applying any stimulating oint- ment, as turpentine mixed with wax, to the diseased part, after it has been well washed ; or blue stone with lard, in the proportion of 40 grains of the former to an ounce of the latter. The Native recipes are given in page 83, which may be practised with benefit. KANDI AND BUMBOODE. Whitlow of the Feet. History.—The first of the above terms is applied to ulceration on the soles of the feet; the second to the same affection when situated above the nails, or lower parts of the extremities. This affection is the result of a bruise, or of a prick inflicted by the animal treading or accidentally knocking its feet against thorns, sharp pieces of stone, &c. It may also arise from the con- tinued marching of the animal over wet muddy ground. Inflammation and suppuration follow, leaving an ulcerated surface or sinus. Treatment.—-The treatment consists first, in the application of fo- mentations, whereby the inflammation will be moderated, and possibly suppuration prevented. The foreign substance, whether thorn, &c., should, it is scarcely necessary to say, be removed as soon as possible; and di- ligent search ought to be made if doubt exists as to its presence within the foot. Then, if ulceration exists, detergent applications, as camphorated oil or blue stone solution, ought to be injected by means of a syringe, then the orifice ought to be filled with a piece of cloth to prevent mud, &c. getting into the wound, thereby occasioning further irritation, which pre- vents the curative process going on.