( 36 ) treatment. The application is continued uninterruptedly till a coating of it has accumulated, the thickness of which prevents the rapid dissipation of heat. When it is wished to foment the back and sides, of an Elephant a flannel cloth (jhool) ought to be first thrown over the back and the ends tied together beneath the abdomen,—then hot water without cow-dung may be applied to the cumblie by means of a brush as above alluded to. This will soon become saturated with hot water, and the continued application of this will keep up its temperature, which the thickness of the cloth will prevent immediately becoming reduced. OPIATES AND ANTI-SPASMODICS. Opium—Assafcetida—Nutmeg. Opium.—Is a medicine in frequent use, and is advantageously given in spasmodic affections of bowels, as spasmodic colic (Pet-ka-durrud,) page 16, and flatulent colic (Wiegollah,) page 17. The dose may be from 1 to 9 drachms, according to the severity of the case. Assafcetida.—Is also a medicine in frequent use in the spasmodic diseases above named. It is also a valuable medicine in functionary derange- ment of the digestive organs, during the existence of which the animal falls more or less out of condition, loss of flesh and strength supervening. It may be given in doses of one or two ounces. Nutmeg is advantageously combin- ed with the above in doses of one ounce to three ounces. PURGATIVES. This is an equally important class of medicines in regard to the Elephant as to man, and the other animals which he employs to assist him by their physical powers, but strange to say, it is a class of medicines, the effects of which on the Elephant are by the attendants, wholly unknown. Accordingly they never prescribe purgatives, such having no place in their Materia Medica. The aloes indeed is a common ingredient in their Mussallas, but it is given with an alterative and tonic object, the dose prescribed being immensely smaller than what is required to produce purgation. Before detailing the doses of substances I have found useful as purga- tives, I will describe the practice the Elephant itself resorts to, and which instinct suggests to produce purgation ; only in one affection does the Elephant resort to it, namely, in the disease Lungun, or fasting, which as stated in page 18, consists in an accumulation of worms in the alimentary canal. When irritation arises from this cause the animal swallows a variable quantity of