( 32 ) Boil the milk, pulverize the rice and add, mix well, then add the other two ingredients and give one part in the morning, and in the evening repeat the other part. The two doses will be sufficient. 2d MUSSALLA. Bukree ka-dood’h, 5 seers (Goat’s milk.) Gudheeka-dood’h ditto (Ass’ ditto.) Sukeea Soomul, 5 Tolahs (Arsenic.) Powder the Arsenic and mix with the milk, and boil the whole for a little—then add a small quantity of tyre or duliee to cause the milk to curdle, mix the whole well, give a tolah weight morning and evening. The two doses are said to be sufficient as illustrative of how much may be done with the view to preserve the efficiency of Public Cattle by the establishment of systematic checks against carelessness, and still more of checks to malpractices on the part of the atten- dants; this part of the present Memoir cannot better be concluded, than by stating the success of arrangements instituted at Hoonsoor to accomplish the important object just stated by Major Watkins, Deputy Commissary Gene- ral, when in charge of the Public Cattle Department. It is one of the many improvements effected in the four Public Establishments that were confided to the charge of that zealous Officer at Hoonsoor, when Senior Assistant Com- missary General. Assuming it as a principle that sore backs and injuries to the feet of the Elephant or Camels were, unless the contrary could be proved, the result of negligence on the part of the attendants, Major Watkins instituted the rule, that so long as animals were under treatment for such injuries half of the Cattle attendant’s pay should be stopped, unless good cause could in individual cases be shewn why the rule ought not to be put in operation. The immediate result was a great, reduction of the number of these injuries and while previously to institution of the above rule, there were in Hospital always a comparatively great number of animals under treatment for them, more especially of Camels ; now we rarely see a case. In fact in former times, there was a premiumon disability of the Public Cattle ; for so long as the Mahout or Sirwan was permitted to draw full pay, whether his animal were efficient or otherwise as in the latter case, he escaped detachment duty, exemption thereby obtained from personal exertion too often suggested malpractices to secure it. During a campaign the principle of reward for the continued efficiency of Cattle might advantageously be brought into operation simultaneously with punishment for the opposite condition.