( 20 ) as taking to water when in a heated state. It usually supervenes immediate- ly after coming oft' a journey when the animal has been thus carelessly dealt with. It is more prevalent in cold weather than during hot: as to degree it is variable, from slight lameness to complete inefficiency. The part most fre- quently affected by rheumatism is the shoulder. Treatment.—Fomentations in the manner directed at page 35, are of singular use in this affection, and the application of a liniment of turpentine and blistering ointment, well rubbed in over the affected part, alone, or con- joined with a purgative, will prove sufficient in the milder attacks. In those however of severe degree, and of greater superficial extent, where lameness to the degree of incapacitating for duty exists, these measures ought to be con- joined with blood letting. The Mussallas given by the Natives for the affection are similar to those given in Bhao-ka-murz. They are of little use in this ailment. RUSSOOLIE OR BOILS. History.—The Elephant occasionally suffers from boils, confined to no particular part though most usually situated on the face and thighs. They ap- pear to arise from internal derangement of the digestive organs, and most probably the liver. They are either blind boils, i. e. such as do not proceed to suppuration, but disappear without advancing to suppuration after a vari- able time either without treatment or by the assistance of a purgative with a|or| an ounce of calomel by way of correction of biliary derangement. The blind boils differ from the mungee or tumour indicative of Zaarbahd, in size, number and situation. Others, however, are of a suppurative character and by no treatment can be prevented going on to termination in the suppu- rative process. This latter variety of boils require care and management, for if not properly treated they may occasion so much mischief as to consume several months for treatment, during which time the animal is nearly or totally incapacitated for service. The important point to be attended to in the treatment of suppurative boils, consists in early giving exit to the matter or pus secreted during the progress of the affection. Prior to its formation, however, fomentation ought to be practised, as this will ameliorate the intensity of the previous inflam- mation, and when the suppurative process is established, will also prove useful; amongst other advantages it softens the swelling of the tumour and admits the more easily of the presence of pus being ascertained. This point being determined no time ought to be lost in making a free incision to give exit to the pus. If this be not done early, the thickness of the skin, preventing speedy access to the surface, and the pus continuing to be secreted but