( 67 ) and tendinous fibre. This state of the muscular system is alluded to on ac- count of the practical bearing it has on injuries done to these parts. It is well known that bruises, &c. inflicted on tendinous parts of the human subject, such as the hind feet, are relieved by warm applications, as hot fomentations or poultices, much more efficiently than by cold ones, and experience shows, that the same principle holds good in regard to the Elephant, so therefore, all bruises and inflammations of the carcase of the Elephant ought to be well fomented in the manner pointed out in page 3-5. By immediate recourse to this measure inflammation will frequently be subdued, which if neglected or otherwise dealt with, will frequently run on to suppuration, and this more or less interferes with the efficiency of the animal. OF THE CELLULAR SYSTEM. The cellular system is that which connects the various parts of the animal frame. In man, and in the larger quadrupeds, it is very thin and transparent, and contains in its folds the fatty matter. This sj^stcm in the Elephant is proportionally to relative bulk, of much stronger texture, and has more the character of a tendinous structure—another peculiarity of it is the absence of fatty matter; no where throughout the car- case of the Elephant is fat to be found. It would appear as if nature had consi- dered the weight of the Elephant sufficiently ponderous when it combined the essentials of the animal frame without further increasing that weight by a variable secretion of fat. The tendinous character of this system further indi- cates the utility of hot fomentation in assuaging superficial inflammatory action by what cause soever superinduced. It is this membrane which undergoes the inflammatory and frequently suppurative process from injury inflicted by the direct pressure of the animal's load on its body when from carelessness on the part of the Mahout, or inefficiency in regard to the padding, the animal’s burden is thus allowed to press directly on its body. ORGANS OF GENERATION. The chief peculiarity of this department is in regard to the male whose testicles are contained within the cavity of the abdomen and are there situated near the kidneys,—of course this position renders the operation of castration impracticable were all other circumstances favorable. OF THE WEIGHT OF THE CARCASE OF AN ORDINARY SIZED ELEPHANT. Before closing this part of the Memoir it may be useful to append the result of weighing the carcase of an Elephant, with the view to ascertain