PART 1st. THE HISTORY AND TREATMENT OF THE DISEASES OF THE ELEPHANT. THE theory of the Cattle attendants regarding disease has at least the recommendation of simplicity. They consider all diseases to arise either from a superabundance of heat in the animal’s system, or from a deficiency of temperature—accordingly in the treatment of disease, the practice of the Mahouts is directed to one of two objects, either to restore heat or withdraw it. Depressed temperature, however, is considered by far the most fruitful source of disease, and accordingly what are considered to be the stimulating medicines are much more frequently exhibited than those of the opposite character. It is fortunate, however, that their theory and their practice do not always harmonize, otherwise their interference would, in many instances, be attended with much mischief. Thus they consider inflammation of the brain “ Bhao ka murz”—see page 9—a disease to arise from cold, and accordingly give what they consider heating medicines, which indeed they, as we will afterwards see, are not. In severe ailments, as all those of the inflammatory class, the native practice may be said to be always inert, and in some instances hurtful. They have no idea of the powerfully curative effects of bleeding or purgation in inflammatory disease, indeed frequently in such cases they employ stimulants, so their advice in this class of diseases is to be for the most part discarded. But an opposite estimate is to be taken of their treatment of chronic disease, particularly of the digestive organs, here their Mussallas appear in many cases to be useful. Accordingly in the 2d Part of this Memoir will be found sundry receipts for the preparation of Mussallas for the latter class of diseases, and I have thought it will be attended with benefit, also to make known what is frequently prescribed in other diseases, as well to convey an idea of native practice, as to guard those who have the superintendence of Public Cattle from trusting, in inflammatory diseases, to preparations, which the Cattle attendants will pronounce almost infallible. These receipts are given in the 2d Part, not to interfere with convenience of reference to the subject discussed in this one. There is a term in frequent use amongst the Cattle attendants, more especially, however, amongst the attendants of the horned Cattle and Camels than amongst those of the Elephant, which it is advisable here to explain. The term alluded to, is B