( 34 ) Shemroofe.—Vermillion (Red Sulphuret of Mercury) dose | to 1 oz. useful. The last named two medicines are frequently used as alteratives, and are valuable medicines. The above doses are to be considered only for ex- hibition once or twice ; when a continued use is considered advisable, one to two drachms daily constitute a dose. When salivation occurs during the use of these medicines, this is an indication that the system is fully under their influence, and their further use is then to be stopped, or suspended, as perseverance in their use subsequent to the occurrence of salivation would be prejudicial. Borax Sulphur.—These two are likewise used as alteratives, and are useful in mild digestive derangements. Aloes.—In doses of 1 to 3 oz. is also a useful alterative. ANTHELMINTICS, Or medicines for worms in the bowels. The alimentary canal of the Elephant is as stated at length under the head Lungun, in Part 1st of this Memoir, page 18, subject to be invested with worms. These are effectually scoured out as mentioned under the head Purgatives, page 36, by the use of earth, which the animal instinctively and immediately resorts to, when troubled with worms. These sometimes accumulate to an enormous number, and after the Elephant takes earth they are usually passed dead. The earth is a most efficient cleanser of these worms, but tonics are required to restore the vigour of the digestive organs, on the derangement of wffiich their existence seems to depend. CARMINATIVES AND STIMULANTS. This class of medicines is in frequent use in spasmodic affections of bowels, or in impaired function of the digestive organs. The most important are, marking nut, sweet flag, ginger, cinnamon, cloves, black pepper, chilli. Of these the marking nut is the most powerful. It may be given in doses from 4 to 12 drachms. EMETICS. No medicine, whether animal, vegetable or mineral, is known to the Mahouts as having Emetic effect on the Elephant. I have given Tartar Emetic in two ounce doses, morning and evening, till half a pound was taken,