( 24 ) Uldha. Kuttha. Gotee Suparee. Mohar. Shaoth, any quantity of each ; grind together the above, and mix with honey ; then apply to soles of the feet. LUTCHUP. Sprain. History.—The Elephant is a very surefooted animal, and will ascend or descend inclinations of such steepness, as without personal observation would startle belief. I have seen one descend the bank of a river, the inclination of which was at least 60; this animal was not loaded, but I am told, with half a load on its hack, it would go either up or down such an inclination, provided it consists of earth. In descending steep inclinations, it goes on its hinder knees, then as it were, walks on its forelegs, drawing its body after it, its pon- derous weight causes its forefeet to flatten the bank, and thus to form for itself a flight of steps. In ascending, it goes on its knees if the bank be of the steepness above alluded to, nevertheless it does when engaged in such steep ascent or descents, occasionally, get sprained, more especially when it is hurried. Treatment.—The Native treatment of this accident does not evince much philosophy. It consists in causing the animal to undergo severe bodily exertion, such as swimming in water or walking knee deep in mud. The latter exertion I have known to have caused an Elephant which was on the march, and accidentally got into a quagmire knee deep to break its leg in its endeavour to extricate itself. Fomentation and rest, and if need be, bleeding, promise a more certain cure. SUB CUTANEOUS SUPPURATION. History.—This injury arises from inflammation caused by unequal pressure of the animal’s load, or by the ropes by means of which its burden is fastened on its back. The inflammation does not primarily attack the skin, but the more delicate membrane beneath, that connects the skin to the parts it more immediately covers : such inflammation, which is shewn to exist by more or less swelling of the injured part, may frequently be subdued, if early submitted to the simple treatment of fomentation; vide page 60 for instructions regarding fomentation. But if it be completely neglected till the usual consequence, viz. suppuration, and also sloughing of the membrane