( 23 ) These injuries are extremely tedious of cure ; they always more or less interfere with the efficiency of the animal, and may wholly disable it. They may intentionally be inflicted by the attendants to incapacitate the animal for duty, and thus escape the fatigues or the dangers, real or supposed, of active service. As animals may speedily be incapacitated for further service, when marching over rough roads, in consequence of severe injury being done to the feet, every diligence ought to be taken to ensure inspection of the feet after coining off a march, more especially during the movements of a Force. If need be, one or more persons ought to be detailed to point out to the Mahout, such parts of the road as are free of all bodies likely to occasion injury, as stumps of shrubs, &c. whereby all excuses for injury to the animals from such sources will be removed, and consequently security ensured against inten- tional injury to the animal on the part of its keeper. When the animal is required to march over rough ground, such as is likely to occasion the injuries at present under consideration, the attendants resort to the devise, ingenious certainly in conception, if not really useful in practice of applying to the soles of the feet, a composition with the view to harden them. The following are two recipes for these compositions. I have had no experience of their efficacy, but consider them worthy of insertion, as their use can do no harm, but may prove useful on trial. I learned this prac- tice when submitting to one of the Cattle attendants, the practicability of de- fending the animal’s feet by mechanical means, such as leather bags with iron soles, when either by the act of the enemy, or from the natural state of the road, its condition is such as to endanger injury to the animal from the causes under consideration. This project is not by the attendants supposed to hold out much likelihood of proving practically useful, as the animal thus encumbered, it is supposed, will not move, or do so very slowly. The follow- ing are the recipes for preparing the composition for hardening the soles of the Elephant’s feet : Take of—1. Wax, any quantity. 2. Chunam, ditto. 3. Mansul, ditto. 4. Dried Spleen of any animal. 5. Honey, any quantity. The ingredients 2, 3 and 4 to be powdered and mixed with the wax and honey, and then to apply on soles of feet once or so. Take of Churke. Mahpul. Zinga Ulde.