( 9 ) In Part 3d, page 38, will be found some receipts for Mussallas the Natives are in the habit of giving in this affection, but they are, as a primary measure, of no efficiency, but may be conjoined with bleeding, &c. as above recom- mended. The ratib ought to be stopped during this disease. This disease is particularly worthy the attention of those who, during a Campaign, are entrusted with the superintendence of the Public Cattle. Early recourse to bleeding may restore Elephants speedily to health, while neglect may deprive the Force of their invaluable services, and it is the more worthy of attention since the disease, whether endemic or epidemic, may attack several at one and the same time. BHAO-KA-MURZ--DHAAG-KA-MURZ—PEEPSA-KA-MURZ. History.—These three terms are given to the most dangerous ailments to which the Elephant is subject. The seat of one is the brain, of the other the lungs ; and the Mahouts use these names in common for both diseases as they consider that only one disease is involved. At present we will consider the affection of the brain, that of the lungs is treated of at page 14. In regard to the head the above terms imply. 1st. Inflammation of the brain, or of its membranes. 2d. Inflammation of the membrane lining the cavity of the cells, which separate the inner table of the cranium from the exterior. 3d. It is also expressive of apoplexy. The first of these affec- tions, viz. inflammation of the brain, or of its membranes, is marked by furious delirium. The animal is extremely restless, tries to escape and to attack its keeper, frequently lies down and rises, but this latter motion soon comes to an end, the animal through weakness being no longer able to rise : a highly characteristic symptom of his disease is the trunk becoming much shorter, sometimes to half its former length ; an attack of apoplexy is marked with the restlessness just described, but not with furious delirium—it is also attended occasionally with difficult respiration. When the inflammation is situate in the membrane lining the air cells, it usually is preceded with inflammation and sloughing of the skin over the fore- head, though it may arise principally in that membrane. The causes of these affections are not always apparent though they appear to be connected with over feeding and exposure to an ardent sun—a careless and irascible Mahout may injure the head of his Elephant to the extent of endangering inflammation of the cellular membrane by goading the animal on the forehead with his ankuss. Behind the ear is the proper place for the application of this instrument. Of the above affections the apoplexy is the most speedily fatal, the animal usually dying within an hour after the attack, although up to the moment of the development of the complaint, it C