( 21 ) having no external passage for escape, the secreted fluid burrows below the skin separating it from its healthy connexion, whereby an abscess, more or less extensive is eventually formed, the healing of which may be the work of months. Treatment.—The boils therefore, of the suppurative kind, now under consideration, are first to be well fomented to expedite the suppurative process and to ameliorate the inflammatory ; when matter is formed make a free incision to give it exit, after which dress the abscess with camphorated oil or with a solution of blue stone, or with turpentine or other detergent substance. Under this treatment the parts will soon be healed and an extensive abscess be prevented forming, which if allowed to form, will take months to cure. It may be advisable to make a few more cautionary remarks on this important point of early opening abscesses occasioned by boils or otherwise. The Natives resort to this practice, but not till much of the mischief above alluded to, as arising from delay, has been done. The Mahout in all proba- bility will raise objections to the opening of the boil on the ground of its not being ready or ripe, in other words suppuration not having in his estima- tion taken place, and he will defend the correctness of his assertion on the circumstance of the boil or tumour feeling hard. But his advice is not to be acted on from the simple fact that a hard immovable swelling, the contour of which rises more or less abruptly above the general surface of the body, shews that suppuration has occurred and the hardness considered by him the test of absence of pus, arises from the presence of this, it being confined as yet to narrow limits and stretching the skin over it, in the endeavour to make an exit. It is not till the skin becomes soft from absorption when extensive mischief has been done, that he considers the boil ready to be opened. A case strongly illustrative of the practical utility of the above remarks occurred here a few months ago. An Elephant which was caught in a pit, had, when falling therein, been severely injured in one of the forelegs; swelling and eventually suppuration occurred. The limb nearly twice as large as the healthy one, felt as hard as stone, the hardness arising from confined pus. The Mahouts however asserted there could be no pus present, seeing the hardness of the swelling. They were convinced of their error only when a free opening was made into it, when there escaped several pints of fetid pus, the first portions of which were projected several feet from the orifice of the incision. This distant projection of the pus was a corroborative proof of the great and distressingly painful distension of the parts. The delay of making an early incision in the case occasioned extensive inflammation, and so much pain, that the animal with the view to relief, supported the forepart of its body principally on the healthy foreleg ; but constant pressure thereon, F