PART 4 th. A GENERAL VIEW OF THE ANATOMY OF THE ANIMAL. The following Anatomical notices of the Elephant are of such a kind as is considered sufficient to convey only a general knowledge of the struc- ture of the Animal, and the relative situation of the organs, a minuter description of its organization than this would be attended with no practical advantage, and consequently here, where practical utility is the one object in view would be superfluous, and of a like character would be disquisitions on .the functions of the organs, and the laws of their action, the eye of the Elephant is constructed on the same optical principles as that of other land Animals and so of other organs. Those therefore who wish to possess such information have only to consult extant Works in which in reference to other land Animals the Horse, for instance,—these matters are discussed perhaps as useful a work as can be consulted with respect to this object, is the Volume of the Library of Useful Knowledge devoted to the Horse. Of all parts of the Elephant its skeleton contains the greatest dissimila- rity to that of other Public Cattle, whether Horse, Camel or Bullock. On this account as well as the circumstance of the Skeleton of an Animal furnishing definite points of bearing, whence to refer in pointing out the relative position of organs, and also greatly consisting in conveying a general knowledge of the structure of the Animal, I will be somewhat minute in giving a description of that of the Elephant. Appended is a Sketch of the Skeleton of the Animal filled up at Hoonsoor under my superintendence, and designed to convey to the Mahouts some idea of the structure of the Animal, A. Is the head, consisting of upper jaw and skull and lower jaw. B. The bones of the neck of which there are seven. These bones are connected as in other large quadrupeds together by tendons, but the latitude of motion possessed by each bone on those to which it is attached is not so great in the Elephant as in the Horse, Camel or Bullock, accordingly the general flexibility of the neck of the animal is comparatively of limited degree, accordingly when the animal wishes to observe an object posterior to the direct line of vision at right angles to his body he requires to turn his whole body more or less round.