( 65 ) artery in the neck is little more than an inch in diameter, but a still greater disproportion holds both in regard to the number and the size of the veins. There is no external jugular vein, and the internal jugular is smaller than the carotid artery it accompanies. Then in regard to other superficial veins, which are numerous and prominent in the Camel, the Horse and the Bullock, their counterparts in the Elephant are in many instances either wanting altogether, or so small, as seldom to be distinguishable. This state of things renders the important operation of bleeding, the mode and site for performing which is about to be described, a more difficult opera- tion in regard to the Elephant than with respect to the Camel, the Horse or the Bullock. THE OPERATION OF BLEEDING. When the arteries on the back of the ear, by which the state of the pulse is determined are sufficiently large, the operation of bleeding will be most conveniently performed there. The operation is simple enough, and consists in making an incision into the trunk or largest of the arterial branches on the back of the ear in a longitudinal direction, with respect to the vessel, or obliquely across—care must be taken not to cut the artery completely asunder, otherwise the flow of blood in consequence of the retraction of the divided ends will be greatly, if not altogether, obstructed. The instrument to be used is a two edged scalpel or an abscess lancet, of the common Surgical or the Veterinary case. The animal must previously be caused to lie down; it is said it will from fear rise up immediately after the incision ; sometimes the blood will flow in a jet, but usually trickles down the ear, and this will not be won- dered at when it is understood, that the artery opened will rarely equal the cabbre of a common writing quill. If the animal can after the first incision be got to lie down again, which is usually will do, though it occasionally refuses, the artery of the opposite ear should be opened. The withdrawal of a gallon of blood is an ordinary bleeding—a gallon and a half a full bleeding. When blood cannot be produced in the place above alluded to, in consequence of the smallness of the arteries, search must be made over the trunk, or extremities for a suitable vein. Search will in vain be made in the neck, as in the Ele- phant there is no external jugular vein, and the internal jugular is at least four inches from the surface, and independently of this is too small for the present purpose. I have tried to bleed from the carotid artery, which as above stated, is about ^ an inch in diameter. It is in close proximity to the jugular vein, and therefore about four inches from the surface. I attempted to reach the artery by means of a trocar furnished with a canula, the instrument with which in the human subject dropsical accumulation of fluid is drawn off, from the cavity off the abdomen. I was in hopes that by leaving the canula or R