( 6* ) throughout their surface which corresponds to the walls of the chest, firmly attached thereto. That this is the normal state of the organ, I satisfied myself by inspection of a newly born animal, which was lately given birth to by a female Elephant caught while in an early stage of the impregnated state in the Coiinbatoor jungles. It was the condition uniformly found in six cases I have inspected of full grown animals, but nevertheless the inspection of this new born animal must be considered most conclusive. The colour of the Elephant’s lungs, in the state of health is that of a bright light pink. In other respects the respiratory system of the Elephant resemble other large quadrupeds. THE SANGUIFEROUS SYSTEM. The centre of this system, the heart, is in the Elephant situate nearly in the same relative position of the chest as in the same organ—in that of other large quadrupeds, namely, near the lower part of the front above the sternum or breast bone where its pulsations are distinctly to be felt. The average number of pulsations of the heart of a healthy Elephant is per minute, 44. This is the average result of a great number of trials made to determine the point. The most eligible place for ascertaining the state of the pulse is at the back and root of the ears, where will be seen distinctly a branch of the carotid artery running like a card over the cartilaginous root of the ear, and subsequently ramifying over its surface. Its pulsation will be distinctly felt pressing with the finger. It is not however so easy a matter to determine the exact amount of the pulsations, as the animal when approach- ed by a stranger, and especially in the recumbent position in which it requires to be placed for the purpose, will rarely remain the required time sufficiently quiet. The better way is to cause an intelligent Mahout to count aloud the pul- sations while the animal is standing, and when the circulatory system is not disturbed by fear or exertion on the part of the animal. In disease, the pulse of the Elephant will rise from the healthy standard above named, to 90 or 100 pulsations in a minute. The heart of the Elephant like that of other large quadrupeds is contained in a membranous envelope, called the pericardium, but not attached to it, as are the lungs to the walls of the chest as already alluded to. The heart however is proportionally smaller in the Elephant than in other large quadrupeds, and indeed a pecu- liarity appertaining to the whole sanguiferous system of the Elephant is its comparative smallness. The aorta immediately at its origin at the heart, is above three inches in diameter, the descending aorta inch, the carotid