( 31 ) usually witli impunity. The following trees are used as fodder by the Elephant : Peepul-ka-jhar. Bhur-ka-jhar. Piplee-ka-jhar. Nandaroo-ka-jhar. Raambahd-ka-jhar. The relative quality of which is in the order named, the first being the best. The Ratib, or rice, is necessary to keep the animal in condition, but in inflammatory affections ought to be suspended, being of a heating nature. Till within a few years ago, Elephants were allowed from half a seer to a seer of jagghery with their ratib ; for this, however, common salt was substituted, but the Elephant attendants do not consider the change advantageous. WATER. An Elephant is watered twice daily, and at each time it requires about 24 gallons of water. Elephants are very nice as to the quality of water they use. They prefer clear to turbid, and refuse to drink water procured by digging in the sandy beds of rivers ; however, if very much harassed with thirst they will partake of it, but only sparingly, they loathe stagnant water, or that containing more or less salt (common salt,) and alkali, which is common in many localities over India. The animal cannot support a deprivation of water much beyond 24 hours. DESIRE FOR PROCREATION. The female Elephant seldom exhibits in a prominent degree a desire for procreation. With the male it occurs about once a year, but in no particular month. During the continuance of this state the animal is more or less unma- nageable, and unsually so much so as to be incapable of being employed with safety or benefit. Accordingly when this state supervenes on a march, it is necessary to picquet him at a convenient place till it subsides. This may be a business of some weeks, even months, if no interference be made ; however, the following Mussallas if given, are said to have the effect of curing the animal in a day or two. I have no personal experience of their effects on the animal, so give them solely on the authority of a sensible Elephant attendant. Munsal, 1 Tolah weight. Laong or Cloves, 2 ditto ditto. Chavul or Rice, 2 ditto ditto. Gaee-ka-Dood’h, (Cow’s milk,).... 4 seers.