( 63 ) practical advantages to consider this part of the animal somewhat in detail, more especially to point out the immense extent of the cells which separate the outer bony plate of the skull from the inner. These cells are as already alluded to in page 9, lined with a membrane which occasionally inflame and constitute one variety of the disease, Bliao ka Murz, vide page 9. The accompanying Sketch No. 2 will assist in forming an idea of the ex- tent of these cells. A. The outer bony table of the SkullB. the inner between which, C. are the cells, under consideration. They communicate freely with one another, and while their aggregate bulk constitutes a very considerable portion of that of the head so very thin are the long partitions of the cells that a section of the skull through A. A., including the larger portion of them, weighs only 8 lbs. and 9 oz., while the entire skull weighs 108^ lbs. D. is the cavity in which the brain is lodged—this organ in an ordinary sized animal weighs 16£ lbs. In order to shoot the animal in the brain this Sketch shows it is necessary to hit much lower down in the head than might be supposed necessary. The most eligible place is the hollow B. (profile) immediately above the insertion of the trunk at the lower part of the forehead ; the Marksman ought to have a posi- tion right in front of the animal, as then the ball will meet with very little im- pediment but penetrate direct backwards to the brain, a shot directed from the side of the animal is by no means so likely to prove efficient as the numer- ous tendinous fibres of the muscles at the sides of the head are very apt to occa- sion the ball to deviate from a direct inward course. E. The opening of the nostrils, being the continuation of the two canals that traverse the entire length of the trunk. F. The teeth. The teeth of the Elephant are eight in nunber, 4 in each jaw, the hinder of the two on either side above or below is several times larger than the front ones, the flat grinding surface of each is crossed with lines of hard enamel which extend throughout the substance of the teeth to their roots, about the age of 70 years the front side teeth fall out; during earlier age they are not subject to disease. OF THE LUNGS. These organs in the Elephant as in the other warm blooded animals, are situate in the chest. In the Elephant however this peculiarity obtains with them, that while in other quadrupeds they are separated from the walls of the chest, so that if this is opened the lungs will collapse, in the Elephant they are