( 25 ) in question follow, an abscess more or less extensive will arise. It is an inj ury very apt to occur, and therefore demands strict supervision when the animal is being loaded, that no part of the body of the animal on which the load rests, be without due protection of the pad, and that the ropes passing down the sides and under the belly be properly secured against causing abrasion by the interposition of leather between them and the body. Inattention to these particulars may speedily deprive a force of the valuable services of the animal. Treatment.—Under what circumstances soever the injury has been caused, the injured parts ought, as soon as possible, to be well fomented. This measure as just stated, may cause the inflammation to subside, or if the injury be of such degree, that suppuration cannot be prevented, the fomenta- tion will moderate the inflammation, while it expedites the suppurative process. As soon as matter has formed, let an exit be given to it externally by free incision ; an opposite course may render the animal useless for many months, and the cogency of early incision is set forth under the head of suppurative boils ; which, as the same principles are involved as respects the ailment just referred to, in regard to treatment and consequences of neglect in the injury now under consideration, the remarks under that head will be advantage- ously consulted in reference to the present injury. In consequence of not making early incision in a case of subcutaneous suppuration, an Elephant was under treatment here upwards of a year. The skin had from the consequence of an injury, such as is now being considered, been separated from subjacent parts to an enormous extent, namely, throughout the greater portion of posterior, part of back, and haunches. The wonder is, that so extensive a suppuration of the skin was not followed by the detached portion sloughing off, altogether. Had seasonable opening been made in this case, much of the extensive mischief above detailed, would have been avoided. The subsequent treatment is similar to that recommended for the after treatment of suppurative boils, with the addition, if need be, of pledgets of cloth inserted to prevent the orifice of the incision closing, whereby the pus would be again pent up. The incisions ought to be more or fewer in number, according to the extent of surface undermined—say about G inches apart. These pledgets of cloth will allow the adhesion of the skin to the subjacent parts to proceed regularly from the circumference of the subcutaneous ulcer to the central parts where the incisions are situated. If extreme suppuration go on the animal ought to be allowed a gener- ous diet. G