( 62 ) M. The metacarpal bone or bones corresponding to the bones in theback of the hand of man, of which there are five in each extremity of the Elephant. N. The phalanges are those corresponding to the bones of the fingers in man, of which there are eighteen. O. The thigh bone or femur. The joint between which, and the pelvis or haunch bone, is in the Elephant of peculiar conformation, in as much as the articulating surface of the thigh bone in this animal is placed on the top of the bone, while with other large quadrupeds it is at the extremity of pro- jection set off from the side. This construction in the Elephant is better adapt- ed for bearing downwards pressure, to meet which in this animal, its enormous weight makes a necessary condition, but it is a construction in which strength is secured at the expense of elasticity and is one cause why the gait of the Elephant is so deficient in this source of comfort to the rider. P. The bones of the leg, of which there are two in each extremity. Q. The bones of the tarsus or ankle joint. These are the bones of the wrist or carpus, and are seven in each foot. R. The bones of the instep or metalarsus, of which in each hinder extremity there are four. S. The bones of the toes, nine in each hinder limb. In the construction and distribution of the digestive organs the Elephant and the Horse have much similarity, but in that of their extremities they dif- fer very much, leaving out of consideration the bones in the Horse’s legs which, at the pastern, connect the hoof to the legs. The Horse has three bones in his legs : the Elephant has only two, consequently while the latter has only three joints in his extremities the former animal has four. The bones of the carpus and tarsus which in the Elephant are immediately above the foot are in the Horse placed at the knee and the hock. The construction under consideration in the Horse admits of the agreeable pace of this animal, while that of the Elephant admits of only its disagreeable progression, consequently as this is the result of the Anatomical construction of the animal no training can over- come it. OF THE HEAD. As might be expected the Elephant differs widely from other animals in the Anatomical construction of the head. It will be attended with some