( 10 ) appears in good health. It is so far fortunate that this apoplexy does not attack the animal when actively employed, but only after having been a time without work, consequently is not likely to prove mischievous during the movements of a force. But the other affections may show themselves on these occasions, and then would appear to result from over exposure to the sun. It may result from the continued exhibiting of stimulating Mussallas given with the view to support the strength of the animal during arduous labour—possi- bly over-exertion may also be a cause. Treatment.—The only chance of saving the animal in inflammation of the brain or apoplexy consists in copious bleeding, and the same practice must prove highly serviceable when the inflammation of the lining membrane of the cells above alluded to, or of the skin over the forehead exists. Bleed- ing ought to be carried to the extent of 15 or 20 lbs. (one and a half or two gallons,) and repeated if need be : see page 65, for instructions for bleed- ing. Fomentations to the haunches and abdomen will assist in drawing off blood from the head, vide page 35, for instructions regarding fomentations. When inflammation of skin over the forehead is the disease to be treat- ed, bleeding is to be practised if the affection be extensive, and hot fomenta- tions applied to the head will prove useful. An aperient may be given. When sloughing has occurred, the ulcerated surface is to be washed with a detergent as camphorated oil; great care is to be taken to prevent flies from depositing eggs of maggots which they are particularly apt to do if allowed access to sores wheresoever situated ; at page 40 will be found receipts for the Mussallas, the natives are in the habit of giving in this affection ; confidence is not to be placed in their powers as primary curative agents, but they may be resorted to after the above measures have been practised. That the sun can exert an injurious effect on the Elephant, when exposed thereto, is beyond all doubt. The disease Ageen Bhao subsequently to be noticed, also opacity of the cornea or transparent part of the eye ball, are direct results of such exposure. Again the animal gives evident manifesta- tions of annoyance from heat, by throwing grass, or whatever in the shape of fodder is given it, on its head and back during hot weather. This act of the animal strongly indicates the propriety of defending its head with a covering of white color, and of an inch or two of thickness (as a padding of wool or cotton,) when the exigencies of a Force require the services of the animal dur- ing the heat of the day. AGEEN BHAO. History.—This disease is an eruption of the skin, sometimes amounting to ulceration. The usual cause of it is exposure to a hot sun, though it occa-