( 35 ) but no Emetic or other obvious medicinal effect followed. The animal conti- nued to eat as usual, but some difficulty was experienced in getting it to take the last two doses apparently from there existing something in the medicine whether taste or otherwise, being disagreeable to it. In doses of one or two drachms daily, Tartar Emetic is advantageously exhibited in the disease Peepsa-ka-Murz, or inflammation of the lungs. EXTERNAL APPLICATIONS. 1st. Detergents of Ulcers, &c. Camphor.—This dissolved in Jingili oil in proportion of 6 ounces of the former, to 24 ounces of the latter, constitutes a very useful external detergent and stimulant to foul ulcers—the proportion of 4 drachms to 24 ounces of water, also constitutes an useful topical application to foul ulcers. The above are largely and advantageously used to ulcers of feet and back. 2d. Blisters and Topical Irritants. Turpentine.—This alone if mixed with Jingili oil, in greater or less proportion, may be advantageously used in foul ulcers. Blistering Ointment and Turpentine. In the proportion of 4 ounces of the former to 8 ounces of the latter, mixed, constitute an efficient blister, when applied to the skin about the neck, and will either blister or stimulate to a considerable degree the thicker parts of the skin. It is a useful application, used as a stimulant in Rheumatic affections, and may be applied over a couple of feet square. 3d. Fomentation. Under the head of topical applications properly comes the Fomentation. This is a most useful application, and from the extent to which it may be used, can be made to exert much curative influence on internal complaints, as inflammations and spasmodic ailments. In Sprains and Rheumatic affections of joints and tumours, of an inflammatory character, it also is very useful, as it moderates the process of inflammation, and facilitates the formation of pus, when topical inflammations cannot be prevented running on to suppuration. The mode of using fomentations as practised here, is as follows :—Cow- dung is mixed with water in such proportion that the mixture has a semi-fluid consistency. This being heated in a large chatty is applied to the body over as much of the surface as is deemed necessary for the particular malady under