PREFATORY REMARKS. The object of this Memoir is to communicate the result of my researches into the History and Treatment of the Diseases of the Elephant, and to convey such other information, which has come into my possession during my enquiries as ivill> it is hoped, prove useful in preserving the efficiency of that useful animal. The design of the Memoir being purely practical, all questions relating to the animal not connected ivith its efficiency in regard to the use made of it in the Pub- lic Service, however interesting in themselves, are carefully excluded. Considered only in regard to being employed in the Public Service as a means of transport, SfC. such concise instructions are given for the preservation of its efficiency and the treatment of its diseases as ivell, admit of easy reference, and convey (he desired in- formation. During peace when time and facilities exist to recruit this Department of the Public Cattle as occasions arise, the individual value of the animal is, to an extensive Government like that of British India, of little comparative amount. But opposite conditions exist in regard to its value during the progress of Mili- tary operations when circumstances render difficult fresh reinforcement to meet the decreasing number, of efficiency, in those employed. The preservation of the effi- ciency of individual animals, during active service, more especially ivhen employed beyond the Frontier, being an object of paramount importance, I have steadily kept in view while drawing up this Memoir, the communicating whatever had occurred to me as likely to prove conducive to that important end, so that those in whose hands is entrusted the superintending charge of the Public Cattle, will, it is hoped, find in it information which will assist them in the discharge of their important duties connected ivith the subject herein discussed. The facts communicated are arranged under four heads, viz. 1st.—The History and Treatment of the Diseases of the Elephant.