( 18 ) the same time are not waterv. It is a chronic affection and arises from loss •f of tone of the alimentary canal, whereby it discharges its function only imperfectly. The animal consequently becomes weak and loses flesh, and if the disease be neglected it may eventually prove fatal. Under ordinary care, however, this is an easily curable affection though somewhat protracted. Treatment.—The treatment consists in restoring the tone of the bowels, and this is done by tonics and stimulants. Ginger, 4 ounces. Assafcetida, 1 ounce. Sweet flag, . . 2 ounces. Margosa bark, 8 ounces. Sulphuret of Antimony, 2 drachms. To be given twice daily for a week—a scruple of calomel may be given daily for four days, afterwards on alternate days. The Native remedies which will be found at page 44 are very useful, and may be confided in, in all ordi- nary and in uncomplicated cases of this affection. LUNGUN. History.—This disease consists of a purging during which worms in variable number are passed. The worms that infest the alimentary canal of the Elephant are of two kinds, the one a worm about 2 or at most 3 inches in length and about a line in diameter, semi-transparent and of whitish color, the other is a flat circular worm, if the term may be used in reference to it, about the diameter of a silver two-anna piece and of a reddish fleshy color, the former is called Shotee, the latter Mussoorie, by the Mahouts. Tfie Ele- phant’s bowel is rarely, if ever, free of the Shootee, and unless present in very great number they do not appear to be prejudicial—on the other hand, the Mus- soorie causes much irritation and induces the animal to resort to a measure which instinct has pointed out, to give relief from the irritability thence resulting, and in accordance with the suggestion of instinct this measure is perfectly suc- cessful. The measure referred to is the eating of a variable quantity of earth (about 10 or 12 seers.) Usually after the expiration of 12 hours the effect of the taking of this earth shews itself in copious purgation ; after the pur- gation has commenced the animal leaves off taking more earth. The alimen- tary canal is effectually scoured of the worms. The Mussallas given by the Natives in Lungun is the same as for Pet-ka-durrud, see page 43. During the continuance of the Lungun the ratib ought to be withheld, according to the Mahout’s opinions, who consider the giving of rice when the