( 37 ) sandy earth, generally however, about 10 or 12 seers; twelve hours thereafter copious purgation results. This effect appears brought about by the mecha- nical qualities of the earth, and not from any chemical quality it may possess, for I have observed, that it is not earth of any particular che- mical kind the animal uses, but the one requisite appears to be possessing of small solid particles of mineral of any kind, usually however, silica or quartz ; and this exists in sand of a degree of coarseness, such as is used for preparing mortar. This point appears fully settled from the fact, that the animal will, and does frequently use, common river sand, to bring about purgation. It will readily be understood, that such cannot contain, at least in quantity, any soluble saline substance, and I have satisfied myself, that what has been used contained nothing that could, by its chemical qualities, produce the effect under consideration. But there evidently is required a particular state of the alimentary canal, to admit of purgation being produced by the mechanical effects of earth, or rather sand. This at least appears very probable from the fact of my having given the Elephant earth in con- siderably larger quantity, during the absence of Lungun, than what the animal takes to produce purgation, but without the smallest purgative effect resulting. I have given it to the extent of 101b. doses for five days succes- sively, making an aggregate of 50lbs. and not the slightest symptom of pur- gation followed. 1 was induced to make this experiment with a view to determine whether earth, under all conditions of the animal, will operate on it as an aperient. The decisively negative result, from so large a quantity of earth, as that just stated, very distinctly settles the question, and shews that a particular condition of the alimentary canal is essential to its successful effect, a condition, the existence of which, the instinct of the animal unerring- ly intimates and suggests the remedy. Aloes and Croton Oil Seeds.—I have found efficient purgatives. Aloes is required in doses of G to 8 ounces of good Aloes. The Bazar Aloes is a very uncertain remedy, being occasionally almost inert; six times the quantity just stated of the common Bazar Aloes is to be coarsely powdered, put into the ratib, and included with it in the grass envelope, in which the latter is always given. The older Ele- phants usually take the medicine willingly, at least apparently so, but the younger frequently reject ratib, and all, when they taste the me- dicine. In cases where the tonic qualities of Aloes are wished to be brought into play, as well as the aperient, it may be advisable to exhibit this medicine in preference to Croton Seeds ; accordingly it may be given in frequent small quantities,andtheusual allowance of ratib may be divided into several portions instead of 3 or 4 the usual number. This expedient will usually be success- K