( 30 ) DEFENCE FROM THE SUN. In the 1st Part, we have seen that an ardent sun may operate very injuri- ously on the Elephant. The affection Ageen Bao, vide page 10, is the direct result of solar influence and that dangerous affection, namely, inflammation of the brain. Bhao-ka-murz, vide page 9, may arise from the same cause. A white coloured covering of spongy nature over the head and forehead to be worn during hot weather, would doubtless be attended with much comfort to the animal, as these parts being altogether uncovered by its load, are the most frequent seat of the Ageen Bao, a circumstance which shews strongly the propriety of having these parts defended in the manner suggested. SUDDEN CHANGES OF TEMPERATURE TO BE AVOIDED. On coming off the march the Elephant ought to be allowed to cool, pre- viously to being washed, negligence in this particular is apt to occasion serious disease. The animal when in a heated state may be allowed to drink water without the chance of any untoward effects resulting. MOST HEALTHY SITUATION FOR PICQUETING THE ELEPHANT. Elephants ought to be picqueted in open elevated ground, not in topes. The only exception to this rule that ought to be made is with the view to obtain shelter from the effects of a hot sun—so during the heat of the day they may advantageously be picqueted in shady places, as in topes, &c. The Elephant Lines at Hoonsoor are on elevated open ground,to which place they were moved from a low sheltered site, the latter having been found unhealthy to the animal. DIET. The diet of the Elephant consists of Cherraie or fodder, and Ratib, or allowance of rice. There are four sorts of grass which the Elephant prefers to all other kind of fodder and which agree best with it. These are in Hindustanee called Kusseelah—Kala-puttairah—Guttaoloo. There is a grass called Panee-ka- Arecalee, which is a long species that grows in some tanks, which if used continuously is liable to occasion Lungun (worms) not however from any quality the grass itself possesses, but in consequence of a weed which grows amongst it, and with which it is intimately mixed—the continued use of this causes the ailment in question. Branches of trees constitute less nutri- tious food to the Elephant than grasses, and are moreover of a more heating nature, nevertheless the animal can live on them throughout the year and