( 14 ) The exigencies of a Force in movement are very likely to require occa- sional forced exertions from the Public Cattle. The disease now under con- sideration is liable to arise under such circumstances, when after coming heated off a stage it is anxious to cool itself in water, and the Mahouts wish- ing to get their work over quickly may commence the operation of washing before the animal is sufficiently cooled. The sudden change of temperature thence resulting is peculiarly efficient in causing this affection, and thus the Force may be speedily deprived of the services of an useful animal. It cannot be too urgently recommended, to prevent the animal eating solid food after the supervention of this disease, for the reasons above given, for after the impac- tion of the gullet has occurred nothing effectual can be done to save the animal. PEEPS A-KA-MURZ. Disease of the Lungs. History.—The lungs of the Elephant are subject to inflammation, to sup- puration, and to sanguineous engorgement. But of the class of disease the Mahouts have not clear ideas, and apply to it, in common with the above name of Peepsa-ka-murz, which is definitely expressive of disease of the lungs, the two other terms of Bhao-ka-murz and Dhaag-ka-murz. But these last two terms are used only in reference to the rapidly fatal variety of pulmonary disease, namely, the sanguineous engorgement, which is so far similar to the apopletic variety of Bhao-ka-murz already alluded to above under that head, vide page 9, that in both, death results from a proternal or abnormal collec- tion of blood respectively in the head or in the chest, whereby the function of the containing organs is fatally overcome. But inflammation attacks the lungs and has some characteristic symptoms, and it is the variety of the diseases of this organ, I have in view under the present head. Inflammation of the lungs is a dangerous disease, if not speedily and actively attacked. The animal becomes very restless, but does not lie down ; it opens its mouth wide frequently, and several times in an hour, coughs. As the disease advances, the animal endeavours to escape, but does not become furiously delirious. The surface throughout is very cold, the bowels are costive, but the urine is free. The opening of the mouth under the circumstances above named, is a good distinguishing sign of the disease ; the same symptom is present during the disease of the abdominal organs presently to be described under the head Pet-ka-durrud, page 16 ; but in this latter disease, the animal frequently rise up and lies down and crosses its hind legs, shewing evident signs of great pain, but these symptoms are absent in the disease now under consideration. It is to be observed, however, that this symptom is not always present, but is confined to the mostsevere varietiesof the affection and an inflammation of the