( 27 ) worthy attention, as illustrative of the advantage of resorting to the precau- tionary measure now recommended. Quagmires ought also to be carefully avoided. An Elephant got into one of these in this vicinity lately when on the line of march, its load being on its back, and broke its leg in its endeavours to extricate itself, whereby it was rendered useless and was shot. This quagmire was concealed by water being on the road over it. 2d—INJURY OF THE BACK FROM DIRECT PRESSURE OF THE LOAD THEREON. The kind of injury arising from this source, and the extent to which it may operate are detailed in Part 1st under the head Subcutaneous Inflamma- tion, page 24—this is a very frequent cause of rendering the animal more or less inefficient, and causes of this kind are almost uninterruptedly under treatment at Hoonsoor. While writing this, there are three Elephants under treatment for it, two of which have just returned from on Command. The injury was confessedly caused by the padding being out of order, in conse- quence of which, the loads pressed directly on the shoulders, and thus occa- sioned inflammation and suppuration to an extent that will require some months to cure. I am informed, that the guddalah or pads placed on the backs of Elephants, to prevent their loads making direct pressure on the animal’s back, are very liable to become rotten when exposed to rain. As therefore the efficiency of the Elephant is mainly dependent on the serviceable condition of these pads, too much attention cannot be given to ensure their being kept under cover, and secondly, from wet when the animal arrives at the halting Station. One month’s continued exposure to wet will render them useless, and this was proved in respect of the pads of the two animals above alluded to, which were exposed for about a month to the Monsoon of the Western Coast. The pads and other furniture at present in use for the Elephant are as follows: 1st. The Numdha, which consists of hair well felted together, it is about an inch thick, and about two yards square: it has a covering of gunny on the upper side, and one of coarse cloth on the under. The latter is in immediate contact with the back of the animal. 2d. The guddalah, placed on the top of the Numdha, which consists of two bags of gunny, filled with pataroh, (bulrushes) and about a foot thick, and two feet broad, the length about four or five, variable according to the size of the animal. These bags are joined sideways, near either extremity, the space in the middle receiving the spinous ridge of the backbone of the animal. 3d. Neemgadhie, which is of similar construction to the guddalah, but smaller in all its dimen-