( 7 ) the surface, but when under the influence of this affection they are very pro- minent. The parts situate lower down on the neck next swell, and the skin over them becomes tense, then the swelling occupies the lower part of the neck and stretching between the forelegs finally occupied the whole of the lower part of the abdomen. The swelling is caused by fluid secreted into the cellular tissue, and when it appears on the abdomen, which is usually two or three days after the parotid glands have been swollen, these usually diminish in size, but still continuing distinctly swollen. The swelling below the abdomen sometimes becomes very large, adding more than a foot to the depth of the body of the animal—when punctured a considerable quantity of watery fluid oozes out. Occasionally the Zaarbahd observes a slow and gradual course, and the first indication of this variety is the appearance of blind boils about the ab- domen, which do not suppurate. “ N'ungee” is the name given to this blind boil indicative of Zaarbahd. Boils which suppurate are not indicative of the disease now under con- sideration, such boils are called Russoolie, vide page 20. Zaarbahd sometimes runs its course to a fatal termination in 36 or 48 hours ; usually, however, it is more protracted and may terminate fatally after 3 months continuance. In these protracted cases the swellings above described, may alternately enlarge and decrease, the animal gradually losing- flesh, though continuing to the last to eat fodder. This is at all times a dan- gerous disease, a large majority of cases proving fatal. I am informed pa- ralysis of the hinder extremities sometimes occurs before death. During the Military operations in Goomsur, Northern Circars, during 1837 and 1838, eight Elephants with the Force died of this disease. During the Mahratta war, it also proved very destructive to the Elephant. I have seen two cases-of this disease ; they both came under treatment several days after the commencement of the disease ; during which time no treatment had been resorted to ; they both died. On inspection of the car- case’s appearances much the same in both were discovered, namely, a morbid accumulation*of fluid within the spinal canal, and coagula of lymph occupy- ing a considerable portion of the diameter of the large blood vessels near the heart and also in the carotid arteries. The one died two months after coming under treatment, but about the middle of that period it had so far recovered that it was considered exercise would be beneficial; it had been at Goomsur, but left healthy—the other died