( 61 ) C. The spinous processes are the basis of the prominent ridge that runs along the top of the back. This ridge consists of these processes, bound together with numerous strong tendinous bands covered only by the skin. Its prominence above the contour of the body exposes it to be pressed on di rectly by the animal’s load if attention be not paid to the condition of the pads, or to their proper adjustment, accordingly it is a frequent seat of inflam- mation and suppuration as described in Part 1st, page 5. D. The bones of the tail of which there are twenty-four. E. The bones of the pelvis or haunch bones. This bone in the Elephant is placed almost perpendicularly, while in the Horse, Bullocks and Camels it is considerably inclined to the horizon. F. The ribs of which there are nineteen on either side. G. The breast bone or sternum. To this the ribs are attached, not direct- ly however, as between the sternum and each rib a cartilaginous continu- ation of the latter is placed. The sternum itself consist of spongy bony substance at its commencement at the neck, but a considerable portion of the other extremity consists of cartilage. The ropes which go beneath the belly to fix on the animal’s furniture, and load, bear on the cartilaginous portion of the breast bone. H. The shoulder bone. This bone lias considerable latitude of motion during the movements of the animal, more especially at the upperpart, accord- ingly if due attention be not paid to the adjustment of the pads the skin over this bone is very apt to be inflamed and suppuration follow. I. The lmmeros or bone of the arm, which proportionally is much larger in the Elephant than in the Camel, Horse or Bullock. K. The bones of the fore arm of which there are two, but the one is greatly larger in breadth and thickness than the other. The projection corresponding to the projecting bone at the hinder part of the elbow joint in man is the point on which the animal bears the front part of its body when in the couchant position. L. The bones of the wrist or carpus of which there are seven in eacli limb. These bones are the hardest in the body of Elephant. They are firmly braced together by numerous tendons and tendinous expansions. Q