( 15. ) lungs may exist, which though less intense in degree, ancl unmarked by any prominent symptom may continue a variable period, and eventually cause death if allowed to run its course, undisturbed. It is only by frequent inquiry into the state of the animal’s health, that obscure diseases are to be detected, as any change from the known healthy standard, will thereby arouse atten- tion and suggest observation. Treatment.—The treatment of this disease must be active and speedy— and like all inflammatory diseases of important organs requires active deple- tion. Bleeding to a full quantity is to be practised,—vide page 65, for instructions for bleeding. Fomentations, (vide page 35,) are to be assiduously applied to trunk of body, and an aperient of aloes and croton seeds, or cro- ton seeds alone, (vide page 36 for the doses,) is to be administered conjoined with one or two drachms of tartar emetic. This latter medicine may be con- tinued in drachm doses, every second hour—next morning two drachms of calomel may be given, and if need be, the aperient repeated. The after treat- ment consists in repeating the bleeding and in continuing the fomentations and tartar emetic, with the occasional exhibition of an aperient and of calomel in a drachm dose every other morning. The above history and treatment refer to the pure and severe inflam- matory variety of pulmonary disease, as already intimated—however, there are other varieties of less prominent feature, but nevertheless of very fatal effect. When pulmonary disease occurs in the Elephant in an epidemic shape, the variety of the disease now under consideration would appear to be the one that obtains. I have not myself seen this affection, but I have much satisfaction in inserting here an account of it as it showed itself in the Tenasserim Coast in the year 1839, and when it proved extensively fatal to the Elephants, as well public as private of that province. The account of this epidemic is the pro- duction of Dr. Macdonald, a zealous Officer, on the Madras Establishment, who communicated it to the Medical Board in a topographical description of the Tenasserim Provinces, of which he was Staff Surgeon, and lam indebted for it to the consideration of the Madras Medical Board who ordered it to be forwarded to me, being connected with my duties, as far as regards the inves- tigation of the diseases of public Cattle. With reference to Dr. Macdonald’s account he says—“ In this year of 1339 extensive mortality prevailed among “ the Government Elephants—it began to shew itself at Moulmein, after the “ mortality ceased among the Bullocks sometime in June. Previous to this “ Elephants throughout the provinces died in immense numbers—post mortem “ examinations were made of many of these cases, and save in two instances, “ when death appeared to be the result of peritonitis, in one of which, rupture “ into the abdominal cavity had taken place, all died of disease of the lungs in 46 various stages of congestion and inflammation—in one case suppuration was