( 16 ) “ present—in another, tuberculous deposits : generally one side of the chest “ was only affected, the other lung pretty healthy—among those who died in “ the first outbreak of the disease, the lungs were absolutely black through- “ out, their whole substance more like thespleen, save in its tough membranous “ intersections, than the lungs. This was so general that in our first examina- “ tion it was a matter of doubt what was health, and what was disease, but “ in progress it was ascertained that the healthy lung is of a pale fleshy elastic “ firm substance, while the diseased structure showed every shade from “ the florid appearance of active inflammation, to the black apoplectic “ congestion,—this latter when cut into, giving forth a frothy purulent “ exudation.” The animals attacked with this epidemic, Dr. M. further states, “continue “ to do work till the hour of their death.” It gives me much satisfaction to add that the practice this gentleman found beneficial, is confirmatory of the utility of my own as above given. He also suggests the benefit of attaching to a depot where Elephants are kept, an intelligent subordinate, with the express object to ascertain by daily inspection in the manner I have above recommended, the state of the health of these useful animals : of the great advantage of such a measure, more especially in regard to the Cattle attend- ing a Force in the field, there can be but one opinion. THE HEART. No disease of this organ has come under my notice, with the exception of its valves being clogged with coagulated lymph, but this arose from other causes than disease of the organ itself—such a condition of the valves arises from Zaarbahd. DISEASES OF THE ABDOMINAL ORGANS. Pet-ka-Durrud. History.—This disease is known to exist by the following symptoms. The animal leaves off feeding, is very restless, very frequently engaged in alternate lying dow n and rising up, moves from side to side, opens the mouth more or less frequently, and keeps it open a minute or so, crosses legs fre- quently and frequently strikes sides with tail, and otherwise evinces much distress. The bowels are confined. The surface is more or less below healthy tem- perature. It may arise from sudden depression of temperature of surface, and is always more or less connected with the existence of worms in the ali-