0' 0' <X>CXXX>0<><>0<X><><>0<><>^NEW GUIDE FOR THE Hotel, Bar, Restaurant, Butler, AND Chef.INEW GUIDE FOR THE Hotel, Bar, Restaurant, Butler, and Chef. Being a Hand Book for the" Management OF Hotel and American Bars, and the Manufacture OF THE Principal NEW AND FASHIONABLE DRINKS. HOTEL & RESTAURANT COOKERY, as now practised,. With the Newest Entrees and Dishes. T HE FIRST PART treats of home brewing; the manufacture of wines, spirits, liqueurs and cordials without distillation—the pre- paration and manipulation of, with the newest names and styles of mixing and dressing AMERICAN Dl^INKS, SUITABLE for LICENSED AND NON-LICENSED HOUSES, GARDEN PARTIES, CLUBS, temperance FETES, BAZAARS, &C. By BACCHUS, For many years Contributor to " The British and Foreign Confectioner&c. THE SECOND PART TREATS OF ALL BRANCHES OF COOKERY, CONFECTIONERY AND BREAD, ■ SUITABLE FOR PUBLIC DINNERS, CLUBS, SMALL FAMILY PARTIES, BALLS, ROUTS, LUNCPIEONS, GARDEN PARTIES, SUPPERS, &C. By CORDON BLEU, From the International Food Exhibition, Kensington; the Agricultural Hall, Islington; the Royal Aquarium, &c., Contributor to *^ T'he British and Foreign Coiifectiofier," and other Trade journals; decorated with the Cook's Blue Ribbon and Medal, 1883. LONDON: WILLIAM NICHOLSON AND SONS, 20, WARWICK SQUARE, PATERNOSTER ROW, E.C., AND ALBION WORKS, WAKEFIELD.NVELLCOME INSTITUTE \ LIBRARY Co!!. ^ VvelMOmec Call No. bllnPEEF ACE. jj N bringing this new work before the Trade, we must not n| omit to thank our many friends, the Butlers, Chefs, and ^ Bar-tenders who have given us help both with home and Z foreign work, which has been sur le tapis during the last I few seasons; the more so as we know how loth the representatives of our two professions are to dispense their knowledge, designs, and styles of working to other members of their craft. All the information we asked for has been openly and honourably given, and worth the quid pro quo we gave for it, especially from the Chefs, Butlers, and Mixers of the highest repute. In offering the book, therefore, we can assure the reader that the recipes, which are not of our own actual design, are from men of known ability and position. The genuineness of the recipes and the novelty in the dressings will at once be apparent to the least initiated in the art. For the novice the work will be invaluable, for the old hand it will be what the fashion book is to the modiste. It will show him the newest styles, the newest materials, and the newest wrinkles in the trade. It is the result of many years of practical work and experience in our professions. One of the contributors to the book says, ''Some of the hints are a fortune in themselves,'* as disclosed by Your Obedient Servants, BACCHUS AND CORDON BLEU. London t Sept embers 1885.Digitized by tine Internet Arciiive in 2014 https ://arch i ve. org/detai Is/b20391523BEER, WINES, SPIRITS & LIQUEURS, BY BACCHUS. SYNOPSIS. Part I. I.—Public Brewery, Versus Home Brewing.—9. II.—Cellarage, Storing, Racking, Management of Ales, Beers, and Porters.—17. III. —The Wine Countries and their Products. Wine Merchants. Cleansing of Casks. Restoring and ''Toning-up" Wines.—21. IV. —Cooking Wines. Receipts for making Mock Sherries, Ports, Champagnes, Clarets, also Sweet and Dry Red and White Wines.—27. V.—Essences for Improving Wines. Methods for giving bouquet to cask or bottled goods.—33. VI. —Spirits to Manufacture without Distillation. Simple methods of Distillation. Scotch and Irish "Mountain Dews," Plain" Spirits— THEIR Kinds, Adulterations and Values.—41. VII. —Infusions and Decoctions, Tinctures, Spirit Essences, Syrups and Bitters.—46. VIII.—Liqueurs—their Manufacture and Production AT cheap rates.—57. IX.—Home Made Wines and Ciders.—75. X. —How TO make American Drinks, Including the Art of Manipulating Juleps, Cobblers, Smashes, Fixes, Cocktails, Punches, Shrubs, (fee, IN THE MOST APPROVED FASHION OF THE Leading American, Anglo-American Hotels AND Bars for Summer use.—84—129. XI. —American Drinks, Skins, Tipplers, &c.—129. XII.—Temperance Drinks, Cups and Coolers, also THE New Fashionable Honey Drinks, intro- duced June 1885, including the Celebrated Nectar of the Peri, and Rose of the Valley Nectar, Together with Non - Intoxicating Beers and Beverages, Special Drinks for the Sick-Room and Invalids. Conclusion.—173. N>B. For Special Index^ see end of Book,HINTS ON THE MANUFACTURE OF BEER, WINES, SPIRITS, & LIQUEURS. CHAPTER I. Public Brewery v. Home Brewing. MANY persons have an aversion to Brewery Ales but this in many cases is only a fancy. A large Brewery firm can supply ale, beer, and porter, at a much cheaper rate and of a better quality, especially if they be their own malt- sters. In the first place they can buy grain, malt and hops, cheaper in large bulk than in retail quantities. It is not be- cause we find a few solitary cases, where brewers have been summoned for introducing portions of equine flesh and many hundredweights of beef in the shape of shins and legs into their porter manufacture, that the whole trade is to be con- demned, or because another man is found brewing ale and beer from sugar without declaration to the Excise, and ano- ther favours the tannin from gall nuts in place of its identical brother found in the hop, and because it does not communi- cate the hop bitter taste, treats his customers to a preparation of quassia chips, wood sage, or strychnine, that the British Public are to cease from drinking the ales of well known and respectable firms. But for all that, it is a well known fact that in many houses, the preference is given to simple home brewed ales. You will find the beer drinker; the man wholO THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. loves a glass of pure good ale, often walking miles to some unpretentious public house to enjoy a glass of " Home- Brewed." In the large Breweries where the newest and most expen- sive machinery that can be purchased is at work, where scientific and chemical knowledge is brought to bear on the matter of malt, hops, glucose and sugar brewing, there is seldom or ever a failure, and there is little need of remarks on the subject, but it is to the home-brewer that we would direct our attention. Many a gallon of good ale is spoilt by the fact that men and women allow themselves to be led away by the rapacious invention-vendor; forgetting that if they use these inventions the little old-fashioned brew- house where they have manufactured so many gallons of nut brown ale, will require entirely replenishing and remodelling in its style of apparatus. Like the Scotch and Irish mountain distilleries, the more simple the brewing apparatus, the less foreign subjects introduced, and the less complications in the manufacture, the better the article produced. General Rules of the Brewhouse. Extreme cleanliness is a necessity, before, during and after brewing. All drains in or near the brewhouse should be provided with self-closing traps, so that no foul air from the drains—ix. sewer gas—may enter the building. The floors, walls and roof, should be often and frequently cleansed. But the most important point is the cleanliness of all the vessels used in the process. They must be quickly and thoroughly cleansed after the brewing. The reason, is this: wort, extract of malt or yeast, which remains in or on any vessel after brewing, and is left to the action of the air, more especially in sultry or summer weather generates what is called in the trade "putrefactive fermentation." We take an example of this; a ring of yeast has been leftHINTS ON BREWING. on one of the tubs, and is left to be cleaned to-morrow" and is forgotten for some days. It is then hurriedly cleaned out. Well soaked, well washed, well scrubbed, and well dried. Yet strange to say the next brewing is a failure. It is attacked by putrefactive fermentation, and the liquor be- comes foetid. Practical brewers call this state of matters by a very appropriate name, they say the **fox" is in the wort, and so it is. The whole gist of the matter is this, wood is porous and a good absorber, as far as it will absorb, so far the offensive matter penetrates into its pores. No amount of surface cleaning therefore will remove it, and it requires to be thoroughly disinfected, and nothing does this so effectually as placing a saucer containing burning sulphur in the tub making it air-tight with wood or other cover, thoroughly fumigating it, and then filling it with boiling water highly impregnated with salt and soda. It is the oft- repeated tale of "a stitch in time saves nine." These remarks apply to coppers, casks, coolers, stirrers, shovels, &c., used. It is not necessary to enter into any particulars concerning the process of malting, or to refer to the operations of steeping, couching, flooring, or kiln-drying, but you will know if the malt is good by first, its sweet smell; second, the fulness of the grains; third, the crispness of the husk ; and fourth, the sweet taste of the kernel which should be as friable as the curd of which cheese and cheesecakes are made. The hops too require examination. It is a common practice now to send from America, dressed hops, prepared very much on the same principle as that extended to tea damaged by salt water —or the re-dressing in the East End of London of old tea leaves, gathered for charitable purposes. To judge if the hops are natural is a very simple matter to the initiated. The flowers should be avoided if they are too brio^ht a green12 THE NEAV GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. or too brilliant an olive green. The unused hop is of a light yellowish green colour, as if a grass green had been blanched or faded. By the way, in dressing the mock hops, a great deal of oak bark and nut galls are used, as I before remarked, the chemical analysis of the tannin being identical with that of the hop. Simple Brewing, You will require for this a good copper; 2 mash tubs; a large barrel so fixed that the liquor can be drawn from the bottom like a soft-water butt, also casks for storage. Household Nut Brown Ale for Quick Consumption. 2 Bushels of malt, 7 lbs. of beetroot brewing sugar. Take one pound of sugar and convert into caramel. To Make Brewing Caramel, or Toning. Take an old iron pot, warm it over the fire and grease its bottom and sides with sweet lard or dripping. The pot should hold about a gallon. Break up the sugar, place in the pot and let it melt and become perfectly black. Three parts fill the pot with boiling water, let it simmer from an hour and a half to two hours, strain and put aside to cool. Put the remaining six pounds of sugar in the copper with the water to be boiled for the preparation of the thirty-six gallons of wort. Place one bushel of malt in the mash tub. As soon as the water boils, let it continue to do so for twenty minutes, then open the furnace door and damp the fire down with w^et ashes. Let the water in the copper cool until the first fierce steam has subsided. This is a most difficult point in the brewing. The water must not be too hot to over-scald the malt, nor yet too cold, or the beer will be mawkish.HINTS ON BREWING. 13 Lade in sufficient water just to cover the malt, then cover it with dry malt after it has stood for an hour. When this second layer of malt is put on, let it stand for another hour stirring it well. Run off the first wort from the mash tub into the large cask or receiver, and cover the malt again with the water rather colder than the last, cover up with sacks and let it infuse for three hours. Then draw off the wort, return the two mashings to the copper and add 3 lbs. of hops, and if a very sweet ale is liked, only half the quantity may be used. Cover the copper down and let it simmer gently for 2J hours. Fix a canvas straining cloth over the receiving cask, and strain the whole of the liquor into this. When it is nearly cold add a pint and a half of good white yeast, leave it to ferment, first rousing it up well from the bottom with a wooden ladle, so that the yeast may thoroughly mix with it. Leave it till the next morning and again rouse it up. Let it work for 24 hours, skim off the yeast, and add one shilling's worth of " Boby's Finings." When this is added, rouse the beer up well and stir it thoroughly, adding also the strained caramel or colouring you have made. Cover over the top and in 24 hours a thick crust will have accumulated on the top. This must on no account be touched or broken. Draw the beer from the tap at the bottom, when it will be found clear and bright, ready for cask or bottle. If in casks, reserve some of the liquor to supply the waste by after fer- mentation. If in bottle, cork and wire down at once, and a delicious brisk beer will be the result, ready for immediate use. If it is a wet or a dull day do not bottle the beer. It should be done in fine weather. Clean bottles and best quality corks should be used. Good Family Porter. Proceed as for ale, using instead of ordinary malt, the high dried malt. Work as before directed to the point where thet4 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. hops and wort are put into the copper to boil before cooling, then add another pound of No. 2 quality hops and the fol- lowing ingredients, H lbs. Spanish liquorice, 7 lbs. molasses. It should boil gently for 2 hours, being well stirred, so that the liquorice may not burn or adhere to the sides or the bottom of the copper. Then strain as before, ferment, and after removing the yeast add the brewing caramel, together with a tablespoonful of salts of steel. Fine as before. Put into casks and when the fermentation ceases it will be ready for use. Mock Burton Ale. This requires three mashings, and 6 bushels of pale malt are divided into three. Lay the first two bushels of malt in the mash tub, boil the first wort of 12 gals, of water with 4 lbs. of glucose honey, 1 lb. of coriander seed, and i lb. of salt. The honey is not put in until after it is boiling, the seeds are added while the water is cold. Damp the fire as in No. 1 Receipt, and let the water cool down from 212^ to 175°F. Cover the grain with this and let it stand an hour, put another two bushels of malt on this and draw the first wort off". Make a second mash at the same heat, and a third at 183^ with the rest of the malt. Let the latter be covered and stand quite 3 hours. Mix the worts and boil them with 6 lbs. of hops, when cool, (say about 48^) mix up and rouse well into it 2 pints of good white yeast. Watch till a thick crust is formed on the top, and when you think the fermenta- tion has thoroughly worked, skim the head carefully off. Add 1 oz. of powdered bay salt and one shilling's worth of ** Boby's Finings." Rack off into casks, or bottle. Let it stand 3 hours before putting the cork in, or if in barrels bung with cotton wool, and continue to fill up the barrel until the15 HINTS ON BREWIN(^. after fermentation has ceased, then bung up and it is ready for immediate use. N.B. A very good table ale may be made by putting the malt and hops (used in the previous receipt) into the copper, covering them with water, and stewing them at about 190° for two hours. The contents of the copper are then laded into the mash tub, 12 gallons of water are boiled with 3 lbs. of sugar or treacle. This is poured on the mash and allowed to soak for an hour, when it is drawn off, cooled, fermented and fined. Another delicious beer may be produced by using pure rice malt made from Italian rice instead of barley. A less expen- sive imitation is made by using 1 part rice flour to 5 parts barley malt. It is brewed in a similar manner to ale. Pure rice beer is more expensive than the mixtures of rice and barley malt. The latter makes an ale more suitable to English palates. I have found Bush's French Cream Gum Extract invaluable for producing a permanent head of creamy rich- ness upon all kinds of ale and beer, rendering them brisk and sparkling, and no bottled beer that is wanted to open with a fine sparkling head should be without it. It greatly improves the condition of beer and porter that has become stale or flat during the summer or thunder weather. I have in using found it perfectly harmless, it does not promote acetous fer- mentation, has no deteriorating action whatever on the keep- ing qualities of the beers ; on the contrary its antiseptic pro- perties conduce to their preservation. Use 4 oz. to a barrel of 36 gallons, and add just previous to racking for delivery. The following remarks from the Leeds Mercury,'* fune, 1885, will show what changes have taken place in beer brewing. **Years ago the credit given for duty charged on malt was16 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. about five months. At the present time it is charged on the beer and has to be paid monthly. In the first instance the duty charged was at the rate of 22s. per quarter (of eight bushels), now with the extra duty 28s. Years ago sugar was too dear to take the place of malt, and not only this, the Excise officer kept a watchful eye on the brewer to prevent him using it or any other ingredient, even raw grain in secret, for the reason, that the duty was charged entirely upon the malt; therefore any material in the place of it was a loss to the revenue. The duty as at present charged is upon the beer. By giving the required notice to the Excise officer, you can now brew malt and raw grain combined, or entirely from sugar, the latter being a great inducement to the brewer, for the simple reason that 28 lbs. of sugar at the cost say of 2s. 9d. represents a bushel of malt at 5s. 6d. (according to quality) the consequences being, that a large quantity of the former is used, to the bene- fit of the foreign sugar producer, and to the detriment of the English barley grower, although by supporting the latter we should tend to produce a far purer beverage, and thereby confer a great national benefit." We may remark that the action of beer brewed from sugar, on some constitutions, is to produce symptoms of gouty inflammation, a retarding of the circulation of the blood, which produces a localization of the blood particles in the extremities of the body such as the hands and feet, pro- ducing a disease similar to, if not identical with rheumatic gout. Invalid beers and porters, for people subject to inflammatory afl'ections of the blood, should be brewed from pure malt and hops, even if the brewer has to pay a larger price for his material, and sell the output at a higher rate.CELLARAGE, STORAGE, RACKING. 17 CHAPTER IL Cellarage, Storing, Racking, and Management of Ales, Beers and Porters. GOOD CELLARAGE is half the battle in the keeping of ales. The soil should be a sandy one or dry chalk. The cellar itself should be well ventilated and the tempera- ture easily regulated so that the air may be of an equal heat throughout the vault. Draughts are to be avoided, also ex- cessive heat. In cold cellars I strongly advocate for winter use one of Fletcher's 50s. Hot Air gas ovens. They will at a small cost of gas diffuse an equal heat through the cellar and in the summer time can be utilized in the kitchens as cookers and savers of fuel. This I have found to be one of the few stoves that radiates heat without poisoning the air with sul- phurous fumes and wasting gas. Now that it has become the custom for certain large bottling firms such as Barrett and Elers—Barnett and Foster, &c., to send out compartment cases—to hold ale, beer, porter and serated water bottles, it is certainly one item less of cellar expenditure for the hotel keeper. The system of screw stoppered bottles is superior to the rotten cork system; that spoils both the customer s beer and temper, which is pursued by certain bottling firms with whom I have dealt. If the cellar is too hot during the summer, if possible, pro - cure a free current of air, and stretch lines from one end of the cellar to the other, more especially against a souther;) wall. Dip sacking in water, and hang from these lines, and as ice is so cheap now in bulk—the prices running from Is. 6d. per cwt. for foreign ice in blocks of 2 or 3 cwt. each, an 1 the Aylesbury Dairy Co. will supply, for cellar purposes, i.t about Is. per cwt. I should advise one of these blocks beh^g B!8 THE NEW GUIDE FOk HOT^:LS, ETC. put on a raised stand in the centre of the cellar, and a chan- nel leading to the drain made to carry off the water. This will considerably lower the temperature of very hot cellars. For the storing of barrels of stock and store ales, i.e.y ales and beers that are unracked, there is nothing to beat the old fashioned oak rest, where the cask may lie in peace for 3, 5, 7, or 20 years if necessary. But in these go-ahead days, we find a barrel of beer consigned to its cask on Satur- day and sold as old ale in less than 19 days, having all the appearance and taste of a well matured 5 years old liquor. The iron self tilting racks, or racks supplied with Fowell's barrel tilter are the most useful furnishings a cellar can have. Ale for quick consumption should be received from the brewery racked, and a great deal depends on the manage- ment. If through the carelessness of the Brewery Co.'s ser- vants, the casks are imperfectly cleansed and putrefactive fermentation has assailed the beer, send it back to the brewery, or better still, drain it thoroughly out and mark the barrel as infected, taking care that none of the liquor touches any other barrel or wooden vessel in the house. It is better to lose the beer when in this state than to lose your custom altogether. If the beer should turn ropy and look oily and viscid when drawn, you may be sure that it requires immediate attention. A good old receipt is \ lb. of mustard seeds put in a bag at the bung hole, and 1 oz. of rock 1 alum, dram sulphate of iron and 2 drams of salt. In a few days it will be fit to drink with a good head on it. To Make Old Ale. Add sulphuric acid 1 oz. to the barrel, rummage well, also salts of steel 2 drams. Cocculus indicus, grains of paradise, calamus, tobacco andFLAT PORTER. 19 orange powder are all used in making new ale rapidly into old, but they are to be avoided. When beer is flat, a little salts of wormwood or a lump of whitening put into the barrel will quickly restore it. If tart or hard, carbonate of Potash and a few powdered oyster shells will quickly restore it. Beer that has been affected by thunder or atmospheric causes of a like nature, viz.—the presence of electricity in the air which affects it by causing a decomposition of the com- ponent parts, may be rectified by mixing with the beer in the barrel 6d. of Boby's Finings. Rummage the beer well and add a pint of caramel. Do not be tempted to use boiled Spanish juice, or black tobacco to restore the colour and strength. The sugar colouring is far more simple, natural and effective. After well rummaging, bung up the barrel for 24 hours, then rack off by means of the lower tap and pour into a clean sweet barrel. Draw off in small quantities, say a gallon at a time ; the moment it appears thick and any sedi- ment or lees appear, stop drawing as you will have come to the bottom of the cask. The more slowly and smaller the stream of liquor that is drawn off, the more gently the top crust produced by the finings will descend, and the less feaf of its being broken or the beer clouding. To produce the celebrated Cauliflower Head on Porter* Take to the barrel, sulphate of iron 2 drams, alum 1 dram, powdered bay salt 1 dram, common salt 2 drams. Put in and rummage, then bung down and in 12 hours it will be fit for use* Flat Porter May be revived by taking 1 lb. of high-dried freshly ground malt. Tie in a muslin bag, and hang in the porter from the20 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. bung hole. Bung down and let it stand 8 or 10 days, when it will be found to be all right. Charcoal is a great purifier of beers, ales and porters, from mustiness and putrefaction. It must be remembered that after using charcoal, which absorbs not only all the putrefac- tive organisms created by decay, but also extracts the colour from the liquids to which it is consigned for purifying pur- poses. The beer must be racked off, and colouring matter supplied to replace that withdrawn by the action of the charcoal. If beer is flat from being chilled in the cellar, raise the temperature by means of a gas or other stove, add a little dissolved gelatine and a small quantity of sulphuric acid. The method is this, soak the gelatine two hours in cold, first class ale, say you use 2 oz. of gelatine to the barrel to give it strength. When it is ready for dissolving, put over the fire in a clean saucepan, a quart of the best ale; when this is warm add the soaked gelatine, stir till it is dissolved—it must not boil,—add to the flat thick beer or porter in the barrel, rummage well and add a little sulphuric acid, (or sulphate of iron) bung down and leave for 2 or 3 days.21 THE WINE COUNTRIES. CHAPTER III. The Wine Countries and their Products, &c., &c, THE general British taste for wine is not in favour of pure wines, they like something with a substantial body and plenty of spirit. A new fruity wine with plenty of brandy fretted in and a little cream of tartar to give it a cer« tain hardness, is the kind of drink the uneducated palate would appreciate. German wines contain more spirit than the French, but all are prepared or dressed for the English market. If in the matter of wines we could only cultivate the English wine-bibber's palate to the appreciation of pure wines, which are undressed and contain only the small quan- tity of spirit, naturally engendered by vinous fermentation, we should be doing good service. Perhaps the introduction of our colonial wines, such as those imported by Messrs. Bur- goyne & Co., may do something towards this end. To show how the foreign manufactures are tampered with by middle- men and English retail dealers—so as to make them appre- ciable according to the British standard and gout, I produce a circular which reached me in the early wine season of 1883, from Mons. P. Lafitte, the growe rand producer of the cele- brated **Lafitte" brand of claret. "Gentlemen, I take the liberty of addressing you on the following subject. Hitherto it has been my custom to dispose of my wine to the trade, who after manipulating and blending them with others of inferior quality, have sold them as the produce of my vine- yards, thus materially diminishing their reputation. I have decided in future to supply consumers direct. Being the proprietor of the Sabat Estate, Gironde, five miles from Bor- deaux, I can offer you my wines in cases of 1 doz. each delivered free of all charges within the London radius,'*22 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. Here follows price list quotations intended for the trade, and which it would be invidious to copy here, as any Hotel keeper, Restaurant proprietor or manager, may obtain them by writing direct to Mons. Lafitte at his Chateau. The quotations are an inducement to invest in the pure wines, and the postscript forms a double attraction and shows the honesty of the producer. He says ''should the wines not prove satisfactory, they can be returned at my charge." It is only an endorsement of what we know to be a general prac- tice amongst wine importers. The modus operandi is this: The wines of a good vintage, or of a good maker are bought up in bulk,—Australian, Spanish, Greek, Italian, Hungarian, and other wines are bought and ruthlessly mixed with the vintage products of the Rhine, the Moselle and other famous and popular German and French wine districts, or turned into mean imitations of Prince Metternich, Schloss Johannesberg, Burgundy, Bordeaux, Choice Oporti, or Madeira. Yet strange to say, hundreds of English wine tasters fail to detect the scurrillous imposture. The Wine Merchant Should have a large, reliable and varied Store. He is expected to keep everything and have all wines in good order, but to the average hotel-keeper '*A large and varied stock of Wines" actually kept in stock for single bottle, and single glass retail purposes, would be simply madness and a useless waste of money, which could be successfully floated in the business instead of lying dead, in the shape of wines that may deteriorate. Take the Hockheimmer, Rouge et Blance, two more delicious wines can hardly be named to the real wine lover, but they are rarely called for, and are not good keeping wines. After a certain number of years they deteriorate, thus disproving the . old woman's story, and the fallacious belief of the nouveau riche, **That the older theSTORAGE OF WINES. 23 wine, the better it is." This is not the case with all wines and is the exception that proves the rule. Hotel Cellars and the Storage of Wines Next demands our attention. If it is difficult to find good ale and beer cellars attached to a house, it is still more difficult to find good wine cellars. I would rather have a house with good cellarage and shabby exterior, than a very palace with cellars where my wines and my credit as a caterer would be ruined. For wine storage there ought really to be two cellars, both dry, airy without being draughty, easily ventilated, and the ventilators readily secured and pro- tected, in cases of severe cold or frost. Cellar, No. 1. should be of moderate temperature never under 50°, never over 56° on the hottest day. This is simply for the storage of wines. Cellar, No. 2, should be for the ripening and bringing for- ward of wines, and should have a temperature from about 65° to 70° regularly maintained. Wines in bulk mature much better, are of richer bouquet, fuller bodied and more delicate in gout, than when matured in bottle. As accidents will happen in the best regulated families it will be as well here to give one or two practical receipts for the manipulation of wines that may have gone wrong, and the preparation of casks for racking. Mustiness in Wine Arises from two causes: fungi in the cask, or the presence of an essential oil generated by damp or decayed fruit used in its preparation. If it is the fault of the cask—prepare another and see that it is chemically sweet. If the least trace of mustiness or disagreeable smell appears, dip some clean white cotton rags in sulphur liquefied, the strips should be about 3 inches wide and J yd. long, fasten them together24 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. with a wire, so that they may hang down through the bung- hole, ignite them, place them in the barrel and bung it up tight, for 12 hours. Gently draw out the tinder, i. e, charred rag, wipe the cask out with a clean barrel mop, that has been dipped and wrung out of common wine, till every por- tion of black flake or sediment is removed. Pour in the racked wine from the other barrel, suspend a bag of char- coal from the bunghole over the wine,—bung up tight, add a gill of essence of jessamine or orange flower extract when removing the charcoal in about 3 or 4 days time. Remember the charcoal may remove the colouring from the wine which can be replaced by bilberry juice, or cochineal for red wines, and saffron or marigold for white wines. If on the other hand the deterioration proceeds from the presence of a deleterious oil which is essential in its char- acter, as diflering from fixed oils, you must proceed in the following manner.—Take a quart of the finest sweet Lucca olive oil, rummage well with a brush agitator so as to thoroughly mix it with the wine for three quarters of an hour. Rock the barrel from side to side for an hour or more, then let it stand till next day, and rack it ofl" in small clean wine pitchers, and examine the contents of each to make sure that it is perfectly pure and free from oil. If there is any trace of oil on the top, it must be removed by repeated applications of clean white blotting paper. Put into a clean cask, and well rinse out and fumigate the old one. To Fine Strong Wines. Take 2 oz. sugar of lead to the hogshead of wine, dissolve it in some of the wine, mix well with the brush mixer and leave it till next day, then add dissolved bisulphate of pot- ash 2J oz., rouse well, leave it till the next day and the lead will then be precipitated in the form of an insoluble sulphate at the bottom of the cask. This is the lead pro-25 TO FINE STRONG WINES. cess, much practised abroad by wine refiners and it is to be highly condemned. Many of the good finings in the market, sold by manufacturing chemists, are far more harmless and quite as effective. Here is a very simple one. Take 12 whites of eggs and shells, beat the whites to a foam, also ^ lb. of No. 3 quality Cox's gelatine, (I find this Edinburgh gelatine very free from grease, which is essential for cellar work and brewing). Soak the gelatine in cold wine, and when it is sufficiently swollen, dissolve it in a pannikin of heated wine, when the gelatine has dissolved and the wine has cooled a little, add the whites and shells, and beat the whole together for 2 or 3 minutes, adding cold wine by degrees until there is about a quart of wine added. Then rummage the whole with the hogshead of wine and leave it for a few days to fine. Many red wines are apt to become bitter in taste. This may be prevented by heating them to a temperature of 60^. By the way in buying wines, it may not be in appropriate here to add a few simple tests as to purity. One of the most simple I know is what is called "The White Paper Test.'' Take perfectly plain white filtering paper, and after straining some wine through it, if it leaves a pink stain, you may conclude it is adulterated. Another is, to a glass of suspected wine, add as much soda as will cover a sixpence, and the same quantity of powdered alum. If the wine is adulterated it will change to a violet or a pink colour. Another test, is that of caustic potash— To a wine glass, as much as will lie upon a sixpence. If the wine is pure it will change to a brown or green colour, if it is adulterated with bilberry or elderberry, deep violet will be the result, if logwood, a reddish violet; if beetroot or red sanders wood, it will turn red, and if with American grape spirit, yellow. A great revolution will be effected in\ 26 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. wine making and beer brewing, as far as putrefactive fer- mentation is concerned—if Mons. F. G. SponnageFs new process of coating wooden casks, vats, mash-tubs, &c., with enamel is successful. It will in every case prevent the absorption by the wood of foetid matter and smells, &c., at very little extra cost; while it will dispense with expensive steam apparatus employed in cleaning, they simply requiring to be rinsed out and dried.HOW TO MAKE WINES. 27 CHAPTER IV. Cooking Wines and How to Make them. IN Hotels, Restaurants, and large private houses where there is much wine cookery, it would be a positive waste to use high-class wines for the purposes of basting hares, putting into stews and braised goods, or mixing with such dishes as stewed pears, apples, prunes, <S:c., and where one can get the fruit, and has the opportunity, home made wines such as mock port, sherries, and red wines, should be made in large or small quantities at the convenience of the house- keeper, still-room maid, chef, or cook. The most general wine wanted is a port; the next a sweet white wine to imi- tate sherry, Marsala, &c. This latter I rarely take the trouble to produce myself, as I can get it from Leicester in bulk at continental prices, such as one meets with cooking wines abroad when bought in bulk from the producers, and far cheaper than we can buy those same wines in our own country. I will commence with the Red Port First, and give the simplest receipt I know. Bilberries i gallon, elderberries i gallon, apple or autumn rhubarb 14 lbs. Cut the rhubarb into inch lengths, pound it on a wooden chopping board, with a wooden mallet. Now put it into a perfectly clean wooden mash-tub. Then add the elderberries, and lastly the bilberries, which should be mashed in a wooden bowl before putting into the tub, so that every one of the berries are slightly crushed or broken to allow the juice to escape. Pour boiling water over it, 4^ gallons to this quantity of fruit. Cover it over with a clean28 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. linen cloth to keep out the dust. In about 4 or 5 days, sooner if the weather is very close, you will perceive a thick crust, caused by self or vinous fermentation. From a little vent peg or a wooden tap at the bottom of the mash-tub, draw off the liquor very carefully so as not to break the top crust. If there is no tap or peg, you must skim off the crust, but it will give more trouble in fining and settling the fer- mentation than if it were drawn off. To every gallon of liquid add 3 lbs. of brown cane sugar, thoroughly mix this and then put it into the cask, reserving about a gallon to fill up the cask during the after fermentation, which generally continues for 7 or 8 days. Soak 2 oz. of gelatine in some of the liquor and dissolve in a pint of the wine heated. When this is nearly cold, add to the liquor in the barrel, bung down, and the wine will be fit for use in from 3 to 6 months. To give this wine a bouquet for drinking or sale purposes, add one quart of elderflower water (see page 171) and J pint of cherry essence (see page 56 ). Another Port Very much in vogue amongst cooks, is, to take i gallon of elderflower wine and i gallon of strained elderberry juice, the latter is heated to about 170^^ F. You then dissolve in it 2 oz. citric acid crystals, i oz. alum, and ^ oz. red sanders wood. Mix this in 10 gallons of sweet Hereford or Devon- shire cider. Stir in 3 lbs. of sugar, add i pint of rough un- sweetened gin, and 2 oz. of dissolved and whipped gelatine as directed in the foregoing receipt. Bung down and it will be ready for use in about six weeks. A Common White Wine or Sherry Substitute Is made by taking cider as before, say 10 gallons, add to it 4 lbs. of glucose, and 2 gallons of white elderflower wine. Heat the wine and dissolve i lb, of citric acid crystals in itlet it stand 4 or 5 days, after adding 5 gallons of boiling MOCK CHAMPAGNE FOR COOKING. 2Q Put this into the barrel and mix with a brush agitator; blanch i oz. of bitter almonds, by pouring boiling water over them and put them into the barrel with the mixture, also i oz. of red rose leaves. Dissolve 3 oz. of gelatine previously soaked in cider, whisk it in and mix thoroughly with the contents of the barrel. Bung up and leave to clear. It will be ready for bottling in three months. Elder Flower Wine Is made by gathering the flowers in fine, dry weather; they are greatly improved by the addition of a few vine tendrils and leaves. Bruise them with a wooden mallet and put into the mash-tub. There should be a gallon of elder flowers and a gallon of vine leaves and tendrils. Make a wort by boiling 4 gallons of water, 3 lbs. of sugar and 3 lbs. of glu- cose. Skim it well whilst it is boiling, pour it out into a vessel to cool, and when almost cold, add it to the elder flowers. Work it with J pint of good yeast, let it work for about a week then remove the upper crust and rouse up well with about 4d. worth of finings. In 24 hours, draw it ofl'. The crust gathered on the top by the finings, must not be broken or the whole brewing will be spoilt. It ought to be as clear as crystal. It can now be put into the cask and when the after fermentation has subsided : bung down. N. B. The above is used as a flavourer, and in the making of several mock wines. Mock Champagne for Cooking. Take 7 lbs. of green gooseberries and 14 lbs. of Victoria, or red-fleshed rhubarb. Bruise all the fruit with a wooden masher, put it into a wide bunged cask, or better still, a cask with the head off that has a tap near the bottom, and30 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. water. When there is a good thick crust formed draw off the liquor into a clean mash-tub. To every gallon of liquor add 3J lbs. of sugar. When thoroughly mixed, return it to the first mentioned cask which in the meantime should have been thoroughly cleaned out. Mix it in this with a good quantity of beer finings. Draw off in 24 hours, bottle in strong bottles and wire. Put into cellar about 48° to 50°F. temperature, and store till wanted. The addition of a quart of elder flower water will give a true champagne flavour to the wine, A Good Mock Claret Can be made from Dorset or Somersetshire hard cider; racked of course. Mince in a mincing machine, 7 lbs. of raisins, and 1 lb. of the *' Mother of Claret," also 1 gallon of boiled red rhubarb or red gooseberry juice. Put these into a barrel with the top off, and a tap at the bottom. Put in a pinch of Hartin's Crimson Salts," allow the whole to fer- ment, when it must stand 8 or 10 days, cover over with a clean linen cloth. When it has done fermenting and the yeast ceasing to work, draw it off into a clean cask in which there is 1 pint of plain or silent spirit, mixed with 1 lb. of refined lump sugar. Let it work for about another fortnight, adding reserve liquor until the fermentation ceases. Add i pint elder flower water, and J pint of orange flower water, 2 oz. of refined gelatine soaked and dissolved in wine. Stir the whole well up together, so that it may be thoroughly mixed, and you will have a most recherche claret in less than three months after bunging down, provided the barrel is not shaken, moved or disturbed during the time. A Delicious Sweet Red Wine For cooking and stewing, is made from 3 lbs. of red cur- rants ; 7 lbs* of black or wild cherries; 4 oz. of Juniper ber^31 SWEET WHITE WINE. ries, boiled in 3 pints of water, to which is added 3 lbs. of glucose or honey, and about 2 lbs. of apples, grated without peeling. Let this ferment in a cask open at the top with a tap at the bottom. When the fruit is bruised and put into the cask, a few of the cherry stones ought to be broken and the stalks need not be removed. Put them in first, the juni- per berries and liquor after, and 4 gallons of water that has been boiled and allowed to cool. Ferment with 2 oz. of German yeast, mixed with tepid water and sugar, if you are in a hurry and cannot spare more than 24 hours for the fermen- tation, although the self-fermentation is far superior. Draw off the liquor and put it into a cask with 7 lbs. of sugar. Put in 2 ozs. of soaked and dissolved gelatine, after the cask fer- mentation has subsided, which will be in about 10 days. After the finings are in, bung up, and the wine will be ready in about 3 months. Brandy casks are best for this purpose. Also for the following Sweet White Wine. Take 7 lbs. of whiteheart cherries and 7 lbs. of white cur- rants. Prepare as above using angelica in place of juniper berries. The angelica must be sliced of course. A few hints may not be amiss as to the gathering or buying of the fruits. I purchase my fruit wholesale at Covent Garden, attending at the wholesale hours early in the morning and buying of course at current market prices. I am very careful however about the marketings, and would advise others to take my hints. When fresh fruits are re- quired for wine and liqueur manufacture, I never buy it if Thursday and Friday have been wet days. It is best to buy if possible after a week of continuous sunshine without any showers at least, a state of affairs possible in England although my friend Cordon Bleu often asserts to the contrary.32 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. If you are living in the country and the fruit can be home gathered, so much the better for all purposes. When buying be sure and examine beyond the surface of your baskets of fruit, and be careful not to buy old and decaying stock top- ped with freshly gathered specimens as a sham.ESSENCES FOR IMPROVING WINES. 33 CHAPTER V. Essences for Improving Wines and methods of HIS is necessarily a short chapter, but it is none the 1 less useful. A bouquet is simply a perfume, natural or imparted, to wines. If the wines have deteriorated in any way and lost their distinguishing perfume, it is the business of the wine merchant to restore it. This can be done in a variety of ways. First, by perfuming the casks. Second, by perfuming the liquors. In the first case one of the strongest perfumes that is used is the magnolia flower. In France, and the South of England, this is easily obtainable. Veitch's of Chelsea, will at any time supply these flowers when in season, or procure any fresh blooms that are needed in the preparation of casks for imparting bouquet. It is not necessary to mention the purpose for which the flowers are wanted to ensure receiving them. Magnolia Perfume for Superior Claret, Bordeaux, Take a clean Brandy cask or a newly sulphured and cleansed cask, attach one or two magnolia blooms to a wire long enough to suspend them from the bung hole into the cask. Bung up air tight for from 3 days to a week. Have ready your first consignment of Claret, or Burgundy or Bor- deaux in the pitcher. The moment the flowers are removed insert the tunstal and commence filling. Do not leave the wine exposed to the air, but bung down as rapidly as possible. This is also employed in the sweetening of spirits and liqueurs that have by mistake being put into musty casks. giving Bouquet, dec. c34 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. Jessamine Flowers Are suitable for Sherry, Marsala, Madeira, &c., and also for Port and several red wines. Meadow-sweet and fragrant meadow herbs are frequently put into bags and hung in white wine casks to perfume them previous to racking the wines in. It gives them an indescribable bouquet. A very favourite essence for giving bouquet to Claret is the following—Half an ounce each of spirit essence of com- mercial otto of roses, Turkey geranium, balsam of Peru, and lemon; add these to 1 quart of white rum; mix well to- gether, and when decanting put a teaspoonful into the claret jug before pouring in the claret, or into the claret itself. To Improve the Flavour of Sherry Add 6 drops of essence of noyeau to each bottle. Another very favourite Red Wine Bouquet is 1 oz. of commercial ambergris, 1 oz. commercial musk, 1 oz. orris root (violet.) Blend the 3 and rummage into a hogshead of wine. Un- principled dealers use this to turn common wine into seem- ingly high priced claret, and indeed the taste and bouquet are very deceptive. Another Sherry Bouquet is produced by 1 oz. of spirit essence of almonds, 1 oz. of rose water distilled, 1 oz. of treble distilled orange flower water. Mix with 1 quart of plain silent spirit, or white rum, and rummage into a hogs- head. Porter Spice. 1 lb. of fine cloves bruised. The rind of 6 lemons, ^ lb. cinnamon bruised, 1 lb. of allspice, 2 oz. coriander seed, i oz. carraway seeds all bruised. Place in a chafing dish, with a close cover, shake over the charcoal fire or gas ring till they are quite hot, then put into a jar that has stood in aA MIXTURE FOR IMPROVING RUM. 35 bucket of boiling water, and is hot and dry inside. Transfer the contents of the pan rapidly; pour on the spice 1 gallon 0. p, spirit. Let it stay in the jar for a fortnight, shaking it well every day; then filter and add to the spirit 2 gallons of syrup—second quality, mixing it with the spirit essence as you require to use it, and keeping it tightly corked so that it may not evaporate. To serve, 1 teaspoonful to a pint of porter, and sweeten to the customer's taste. A Mixture for Improving Rum Is essence of prunes. Prunes 3 lbs., o. p. plain spirit 1 quart, Guiness's extra stout 2 gallons, gelatine \ lb., clarified honey 1 lb. Take a hammer and strike each prune so as to break the kernel. When they are all done put them into a jar with the o. p. plain spirit or rum. Rummage it well and let it stand for a fortnight or 3 weeks, shaking it every day. Next add the clarified strained honey—then the stout. Soak the gelatine in 1 quart of the stout, dissolve it over the fire—add to the contents of the jar, rummage it well whilst adding. Let it stand for an hour or two, then add to any barrels of rum, that have become weak and under excise proof, 1 pint to the gallon and a table spoonful of essence of capsicum will soon brighten, tone it up and give it body. This Prune Mixture may be used for Port Wine that has gone wrong. Another Toning Mixture for Wines and Spirits Is made as follows. Syrup from clarified glucose 1 gallon, mix with 2 ozs. essence of bitter almonds, 1 oz. Tannin, and 2 oz. dissolved gelatine (best quality.) Mix these together and add 1 quart to the gallon of Irish whiskies or sherries to be cleared, i. e. if they are very bad, but the quantities abovg given will clear half a hogshead.36 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. Port and Red Wine Rectifier. i lb. gelatine, 3 oz. Tannin. Soak the gelatine in some of the wine to be cleared,—dissolve over the fire, then mix in Tannin, and rummage into the vat with the wine. This will clear from one half to a whole hogshead according to the state of the wine. Try a sample first and estimate quantity from that. The addition of 1 lb. of crushed prunes to the wine will improve it in flavour.CUSTOMS AND EXCISE DUTIES. 37 Customs and Excise Duties. Beer per barrel of specific gravity of 1,057 degrees „ mum, and spruce, the original specific gravity not ex- ceeding 1,215 degrees per barrel „ exceeding 1,215 per barrel „ (other) the worts of which were before fermentation, of a specific gravity of 1,057 degrees And so in proportion for any difference in gravity. Beer dealers and brewers' annual licences— Beer dealers wholesale, not brewers, United Kingdom .. „ additional licences, not to be consumed on the premises, England and Ireland .. Brewers brewing beer for sale. United Kingdom .. „ annual value of house not exceeding ^^lo .. annual value exceeding ;f 10 but not exceeding ;f 15 Beer, retailers of, and cider and perry for consumption on premises „ retailers of, not to be consumed on the premises, England „ retailers of cider or perry only Table beer retailers Beer retailers (Scotland) rated under ;^io „ }, „ at ;^io and upwards „ retailer of, and wines (United Kingdom) for consump- tion on the premises .. „ retailers of, and wines (United Kingdom) not to be consumed on the premises .. Innkeepers or publicans' licences in the United Kingdom for spirits, beer, and wines, to be sold by retail for con- sumption on or off the premises— If annual value of the premises is underlie „ „ ;^io and under ^15 ;f o 6 3 160 I 10 6 066 3 6 If I 5 o 100 060 090 3 10 o I 5 o 1 5 o 050 2 10 o 440 400 300 6 o i-15 £20 £20 /25 £so £^00 £20038 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. If annual value of the premises is £200 and under^300 .. • • OD 0 0 )» ;^300 ,> ^"400 .. /ID 0 Q >> ;f400 n £SOO .. 45 0 » >> /500 „ ^^600 .. .. 50 0 0 >> £600 „ ;f700 .. 55 0 0 a >> £"Joo and upwards .. 60 0 0 Any person applying for a six-days and early closing licence for the sale of spirits as an auxiliary only to his business as a restaurateur or eating-house keeper, and not keeping an open drinking-bar, shall be entitled to his licence at a sum not exceeding .. .. .. 30 o o Where in the case of premises of the value of ;f 50 or upwards, it shall be proved to the satisfaction of the Commis- sioners that the premises are structurally adapted for use as an inn or hotel for the reception of guests and travel- lers desirous of dwelling therein, and are mainly so used, the amount of duty to be paid on a licence to retail spirits shall not exceed ., .. .. .. .. 20 o o Provided that the relief under this sub-section shall not be given in case any portion of the premises is set apart and used as an ordinary public-house for the sale and con- sumption therein of liquors; and the annual value of such portion in the opinion of the Commissioners exceeds ^25. Theatre, to retail spirits in, shall not exceed .. .. .. 20 o o The expression "retailers of spirits," as used above, does not include a spirit grocer in Ireland, as defined by section 81 of the Licensing Act, 1872 ; or a dealer in spirits selling spirits in bottle under an additional licence authorising him in that behalf; or a grocer in Scotland as defined by section 2 of the Public Houses (Scotland) Act, 1853. In the case of premises in Ireland the annual value shall not exceed the amount of the valuation in force under 15 and 16 Vict., c. 63, with the addition of 20 per cent. The provisions regarding six-day licences and early closing licences contained in section 49 of the Licensing Act, 1872, and sections 7 and 8 of the Licensing Act, 1874, shall be deemed to apply throughout the United King- dom. Passengers boats. Spirits, wine, beer, and tobacco to be con sumed on board a boat or vessel for the carriage of pas sengers to and fro in the United Kingdom Do. for one day .. ,. ,, ,, ,, ,, 500 I o o39 CUSTOMS AND EXCISE DUTIES. Occasional licences per day— Publicans .. ., ., .. ..026 Beer retailers ., .. ., ..010 Wine do. .. .. .. .,010 Tobacco .. .. .. .. .. .. ..004 Refreshment'houses, annual licence, England and Ireland, under j^30 rent .. .. .. .. .. .. o 10 6 £10 or above .. .. .. ..116 Refreshment-house keepers, selling wine to be drunk on the premises, open after 10 p.m., if rented under ;^30, are to be allowed an abatement of 7s. 4d., and if rented at £^0 or upwards, 17s. lod. Stills—Annual licence United Kingdom—Chemists and others keeping or using .. ., .. .. .. £0 10 O Spirits, home made, per gallon, proof .. .. .. .. o 10 O imported from Channel Islands .. .. ,, .,0104 „ Brandy, Geneva, Rum, and unenumerated ,. .. O 10 4 „ Perfumed spirits and Eau de Cologne .. .. .. 0166 sweetened, unenumerated, in bottle, not tested for ascertaining the strength .. .. .. .. 0140 „ distillers or rectifiers .. ,. .. .. .. 10 10 o „ dealers not retailers .. .. .. .. .. 10 10 o „ „ to sell in bottles, additional licence .. 330 ,, ,, or to sell foreign liqueurs only in bottles 220 „ methylated, makers of .. .. .. .. .. 10 10 o ,, ,, retailers of .. .. .. .. .. o 10 O —Grocers in Scotland annual licence (including sale of beer), not to be consumed on the premises. Pre- mises under value £10 .. .. .. ..440 ^10 and under ^20 .. .. 550 £20 „ £2S ..990 £^S yy " 10 10 O £Z^ yy i"40 II II o £^0 „ ;^50 .. .. 12 12 O £^0 and upwards .. ., 13 13 o Spirits—Grocers in Ireland annual licence selling spirits not to be consumed on the premises. If rated under ^25 9 18 5A £2^ and under £1,0 .. .. 11 o 6 £30 „ £^0 .. .. 12 2 6^ £A0 „ ^50 .. 13 4 7 ^^50 and upwards .. .. 14 6 7| Sweets, dealers in, annual licence. United Kingdom .. .. 550 retailers of „ ,,,.15040 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. Tobacco and snuff, dealers in .. 0 5 3 Vinegar makers, annual licence, United Kingdom 5 5 0 "Wine merchants, United Kingdom 10 10 0 retailers, Annual licence, selling for consumption on the premises .. 3 10 0 retailers, or grocers, selling wines not to be consumed on the premises, England and Ireland, annual licence 2 10 0 —Grocers, Scotland 2 4 I containing less than 26 degrees of proof spirit, duty per gallon 0 I 0 containing less than 42 degrees of proof spirit, duty per gallon 0 2 6 containing for each additional degree of strength be- yond 42 degrees .. 0 0 3 Not more than one gallon of spirits may be moved from one part of the country to another without a permit or certificate.41 SILENT OR PLAIN SPIRIT. CHAPTER VI. To Manufacture Spirits without Distillation, TOGETHER WITH SIMPLE METHODS OF DISTILLATION AS EXEMPLIFIED BY S it is termed, is the basis of all mock brandies, whiskies, il gin liqueurs, &c. It is produced from various sources, such as maize, or Indian corn, rice, potatoes, beet root, saw dust, and even cotton rags have been pressed into the service of spirit making. Spirits of wine and methylated spirit are largely used in the manufacture of brandy, whiskey, and gin without distillation. Plain or silent spirit may be manu- factured from any material containing starchy matter or cellulose convertible into saccharine matter. Its great advantage is that it has a stand point, and does not deteri- orate in any great degree by age or by keeping. It has no particular taste, and readily absorbs flavours imparted to it by essential oils. It varies, however, in its sanitary quali- ties. For instance, potato spirit is one of the most fiery compounds known, while the spirits from rice and maize are considered much milder and more healthful. Beet root spirit too, if carefully manufactured is to be trusted. Every spirit merchant and vendor of spirits, knows that true gin, rum, and brandy, have their peculiar and distinct traits when first manufactured, features which are not added after distillation, but acquired during the process. It is to simulate this for cooking purposes, that the artist in spirits has to aim. For instance, he wishes to make SCOTCH AND IRISH MOUNTAIN DEY^S. Silent or Plain Spirit42 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. An Imitation Brandy, His first care is, to procure 1 oz. of oil of cognac, which he mixes with half a gallon of plain spirit 95 per cent. The bottle is then tightly corked and vigourously agitated 3 or 4 times a day for about a week, he then adds to it, 2 fluid ozs. of pure spirit of Ammonia. He then takes a stone jar and puts into it, 1 oz. of red rose leaves, 1 oz. of fresh jessamine flowers, J lb. of rough black tea, and 1 lb. of prunes. The prunes are crushed and the kernels broken, also, J lb. of blanched bitter almonds. The spirit contain- ing the oil of cognac and ammonia are added, also, another gallon of plain proof spirit. Let this stand for 10 to 14 days after well mixing, see that it is closely covered down. When it has rested a sufiicient time, carefully filter through paper and bottle for use. It will require reducing in the usual way before being used for cooking or other purposes. Home Made Gin. Take lbs. of juniper berries, i lb. of angelica, and steep them for 14 days in 1 gallon of plain spirit. Filter the spirit ofl" and mix it with i oz. of spirit of capsicum, i oz. of spirit of coriander. Now pour this into a cask or jar which already contains 6 gallons of over proof plain or silent spirit. Fine it down with alum and reduce with water as required. To make a Sweet Gin. Put 1 gallon of syrup made from 4 lbs. loaf sugar and i gallon of water, this must be boiled, skimmed, and added when cold, to the above mixture before the alum fining. Alum Finings Are dissolved in boiling water and when cooled a little areBOURBON WHISKEY. 43 added to the spirits. Some people use 1 oz. of alum and 1 oz. of salts of Tartar, the whole is rammaged together and then left to settle. Usquebaugh, Take 2 oz. of Nutmegs, broken up, 2 oz. bruised cloves, 1 oz. of cinnamon, 1 oz. of bitter almonds, blanched and bruised, i lb. of carraway seeds, J lb. coriander seeds. Heat all these in a chafing dish. Warm a stone jar and put them in. Cover them with 1 gallon of plain spirit and cork tightly. Stand the jar in a warm corner, and agitate 2 or 3 times a day. At the end of a fortnight drain and filter and add 2 oz. of saffron spirit colouring. The Spirit Colouring is made in this way. Place in a small jar 2 oz. of saffron, pour on to it 1 pint of o. p. spirit, shake it well every day for 3 or 4 days, and you will have a beautiful col- ouring. Boil 7 lbs. of lump sugar in a gallon of water, skim it carefully, and when cold or nearly so put it into the cask with 7 gallons of o, p. plain spirit, the gallon of spirit filtered from the spices and the saffron colouring. Fine with 1 oz. of dissolved alum. Rouse up well and leave to fine. For use reduce as per excise scale. As Bourbon Whiskey Enters largely into the composition of many of the American drinks of which I shall hereafter treat, and is required for blending and other purposes, I have determined to give you one of the best " Bar Receipts " from America for its manu- facture. I am indebted to Mr. Parker of New York, for the formula, and I have ever since used it with great success and profit. Take 1 hogshead of good grain spirit, (which runs me from Is. to Is. 6d. per gallon in Bond.) I draw off 1 gallon and put it into a jar with \ lb. of rough black tea, for every gallon of spirit I intend to44 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. convert into " Bourbon." I then take a quart measure and fill it with black rye corns and put them into a coffee roaster with a small bit of lard, as for coffee or cocoa bean roasting. If you have not got the roaster bake them in the oven on a baking tray, taking care they are not burnt. The quart of roasted rye will be sufficient flavour for 10 gallons or even 15. Put the roasted rye corns into the jar containing the gallon of spirit and tea, cork up very closely and do not open for a fortnight, rock it backwards and forwards 2 or 3 times a day to shake it up well. At the end of the fort- night have your barrel ready with the 10 gallons of whiskey, (or a jar containing less if you wish it.) Filter and strain in the spirit from the rye corns, &c., and add at the rate of 15 drops per gallon of cologne gin, 2 fluid ozs. of the spirit of ammonia, and 1 fluid oz. of tincture of chillies, 1 pint of syrup—mix with a brush agitator and if it requires it, fine with alum and salts of Tartar, and it is ready for use when reduced to excise proof. N. B. Bourbon whiskey like white rum and bay rum should be sold full strength and is consequently allowably dearer. By the way, I class bay rum as an essence or tinc- ture of bay leaves, (see the next chapter.) Rye Whiskey. Take J pint of rye corns for each gallon of whiskey to be made. Roast them as for Bourbon, then grind in a steel mill, and infuse for a fortnight with 1 oz. of valerian, and i lb. of black tea to every gallon to be manufactured. Cork up and rock daily for the first week, then add to it the plain spirit, 2 oz. of strong fluid ammonia for every 3 gallons of plain spirit, also 1 oz. of tincture of chillies for the same quantity, and 1 oz. (to 10 gallons) of spirit essence of bitter almonds. Filter and strain in the valerien, tea,WHITE RUM. 45 and rye liquor—wash their lees with a quart of plain spirit, filter it also and add. Put into the barrel 1 quart of lump sugar syrup, then rummage the whole well with a brush agitator and fine as for Bourbon, if necessary, but it will only be where there is carelessness in the manufacture of the whiskey, or the tinctures, that such a course would be necessary. White Rum Is so cheap in Bond that it does not pay to imitate it. It is coloured by the wine merchant, retailer, or mixer, who uses caramel for the purpose ; very often however the small spirit shops put too much water to the liquor, and have to fetch it up again*' with tincture of chillies and capsicum, so as to tickle the palate and throat, and make the customer believe it is strong stuff" he is drinking. Art of Distilling. There has not been any serious or great reform in the art of distilling for many years, and it is a well known fact that the more simple and primitive the apparatus, the better the quality of the spirits* Nothing can be more simple than the bog stills of the Irish shebeen house, or the mountain manufacturing apparatus found in the Highland bothy. There is the still, something like a little washing copper, built up with a receiver on the top, which is not unlike a bagpipe in construction, and which leads to the worm tub. There are one or two wood pails, and a barrel to receive the faints. A flannel sieve to filter with, and perhaps a water tub or two in the vicinity, and you have the whole of the apparatus which is used for producing excellent whiskey*46 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. CHAPTER VII. Infusions and Decoctions: Tinctures, Spirit Essences and Bitters. HERE is a decided difference between an infusion and 1 a decoction. An infusion may be either hot or cold and is prepared thus: The leaves, seeds or roots, are placed in a jar and covered with either water or spirit, sometimes with a mixture of both. Spirit draws out the resinous gums and essential oils; water draws out mucilage, saccharine matter and earthy salts. A decoction is a boiling or stewing, for example, it is a very common error to call a boiled decoc- tion of linseed—tea. Teas are all produced by infusion and not by decoction. An infusion of linseed, or linseed tea would be made by pouring cold or boiling water over lin- seeds, and allowing them to steep in this, so as to extract their proper juices. Having explained this little point, I will proceed to give directions for the preparations of one or two colourings* Take 6 ozs. of cudbear; infuse in 3 pints of o, p. spirit, for from 10 to 14 days, then filter and bottle for use. 1 oz. of saffron infused in 1 pint of o. p. spirit, for 10 to 14 days or longer. Agitate daily. Filter through the proper paper and bottle when sufficiently soaked. Another Yellow Colour Is produced from turmeric, treated in the same way as the saffron. Pink. Yellow.47 ALMOND ESSENCE. Blue Is produced by infusing 1 oz. of indigo in 2 ozs. of sulphuric acid. This must stand for a fortnight during which time the bottle must be left near the stove, so that the acid may work on the colour. Dilute with distilled water and filter. Red. **Hartins' Crimson Salts." Cochineal, or an infusion of red sander's-wood. The latter is made by steeping i lb. of raspings" as they are called in o. p, spirit. Bilberry juice. Beet root. Spirit Essences Are of great value in an Hotel or Restaurant, both for cook- ing and bar purposes. Amongst the principal are Spirit Essence of Lemon. PeeI the yellow rinds from small thin-skinned lemons, taking as little of the white as possible. Large coarse skinned lemons are to be avoided, as they are of little or no use. When you have 1 lb. weight of this, put it into a jar or gallon bottle, and cover with a gallon of o. p. spirit. Let it infuse until the peel sinks to the bottom of the jar. Drain off, bottle and seal. The peel is very nice afterwards for use in puddings, mincemeat or pickles. Another Essence of Lemon May be made from this, by taking 1 pint of the above essence and mixing it with 1 pint of distilled water in which 1 oz. of citric acid crystals have been dissolved. This gives a flavour of rind and acid together. Almond Essence, or Tincture of Almonds Is made by blanching J a lb. of bitter almonds in boiling water, that is, placing them in a pan over the fire in water48 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. and allowing them to come to a boil and then divesting them of their outer skin, or the skin may be removed by placing them in a basin, pouring boiling water on them, and then divesting them of the hull. Put the blanched almonds into a mortar, reduce them to a paste with J lb. of lump sugar, which will prevent their oiling—then put them into a bottle or jar with ^ gallon of o. p. spirit. Agitate the jar daily for a week, then leave it another week to settle. Drain off and filter if necessary. Bottle, cork, and seal for use. Tincture of Cloves. Take 1 lb. of cloves, grind them roughly in a spice or coffee mill, put them into a chafing pan over the fire, and thorough- ly heat. Have the jar heating on the hot plate, so that it may be ready to put them in. When done, put them into the jar and pour over \ gallon of o. p. plain spirit. Cork down tightly, for the first week, shake it two or three times a day, then leave it for another week to infuse, carefully draw it off and bottle, cork, and seal. Tincture of Orange. Choose small thin-skinned red and yellow oranges in equal quantities, peel them by drawing a rim round the centre with a knife and inserting a dessert spoon, the hollow next the flesh of the orange, to act as a lever to raise the skin from the body. Place a paper on a tray and lay the oranges with the yellow side downwards; put in the sun to dry, and on the second or third day, they will be crisp and dry for grind- ing. This is the best method of preserving the spirit aroma or essential oil—but if this cannot be done, dry them in a cool oven with the door open, at a very gentle heat, or on the hot plate. Grind 1 lb. of the peel; add to it 1 gallon of 0, p. plain spirit; infuse for a fortnight, as with other tinc- tures ; filter and bottle*49 TINCTtiRES, ETC. Tincture of Cinnamon. Take 1 lb. of cinnamon, freshly ground, put in a jar with 1 gallon of 0. p. pWm spirit. Steep for 14 days; then filter, bottle, cork, and seal. Tinctures of Coriander, Cardamum, and Carraway Seeds Are made by infusing the seeds, without grinding, for three weeks, in o. p. spirit; 1 lb. to the gallon. Tinctures of All-Spice, Nutmeg, Mace and Gentian Are all ground before infusing, and are manufactured as for tincture of cloves. Very Good Bitters May be made from mixing 1 tablespoonful of tincture of cinnamon; 1 tablespoonful of tincture of lemon; 1 table- spoonful of tincture of Seville orange; 1 tablespoonful of tincture of cloves; 1 tablespoonful of tincture of allspice; 1 pony glass of syrup ; J pint of bay rum ; reduce to excise strength, with distilled water. To Make Bay Rum. Infuse 2 lbs. of fresh bay leaves in 1 gallon of white rum. Let it stand a month. Stir the leaves up occasionally by rocking the jar which must be kept tightly corked the whole time. Strain off and bottle. Solferino. Take 1 oz. of solferino; mix with J- gallon of o. p. plain spirit. Shake the bottle well, two or three times during 24 hours. Filter and bottle. D50 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. Essence of Violets. Take 1 quart of freshly gathered perfumed violets. Steep in i gallon of plain spirit. Infuse for a fortnight. Strain off the liquor, and bottle, cork, and seal. Violet Syrup. To the violets in the jar, now add 1 quart of white refined sugar syrup. Agitate for two or three days and keep in a warm place. At the end of a fortnight, strain and filter off. Press the violets in a screw tammy or wring in a cloth held by two persons, and wrung contrary ways until every drop of juice is expressed. Then tone up with cochineal and indigo colourings until the syrup is a good violet colour. Cork and bottle for use ; for flavouring jellies, blanc-manges, &c. Essence of Hawthorn. Macerate 3 pints of flowers in i gallon of spirits, and J gallon of strong sugar syrup. Steep for 14 days. Filter, cork, and bottle. Essence and Spirit of Jessamine Flowers. Pick the fresh petals without any of the green, and press them down until you have a quart measure full. Add 2 oz. of coriander seeds, and steep the whole in ^ gallon of o. p, spirit, and 1 quart of water (distilled is best for the purpose). Steep for three weeks, drain off, bottle, and cork. Mock Essence of Violets Is made from 1 lb. of orris root, ground, and infused in a gallon of either spirits of wine or grain spirit, the latter is best; 1 quart of water and 3 lbs. of sugar. Steep for a month ; then draw off and filter.ESSENCE OF TANSY. 51 Essence of Pine For the manufacture of spruce beers and American drinks is made by steeping. First, (and best) spruce fir tassells or young buds of the spruce; 1 quart to a gallon of spirit. Second, by pine chips or splints, which are simply fine shavings from the core of a section of pine wood—4 square inches of the wood to the quart of spirit. The wood must be freshly cut from the plantation. This is ready in three days. Third, from young spruce fir cones, gathered in the early autumn. The cones should be as young and tender as possible, 1 pint to the gallon. Steep in plain spirit from two to three weeks. Essence of Absinthe. Macerate wormwood leaves or flowers, 1 lb. to a gallon of the strongest 0. p. spirit that can be bought (potato spirit being the most fiery, is usually employed in the manufacture of absinthe); I fluid oz. of tincture of chillies ; 1 fluid oz. of tincture of lemon peel. Steep from 8 to 10 days. Strain and filter. Wash the lees with 1 pint of distilled water; filter twice; add to the spirit, and this most horrible of all drinks is ready for sale. If the colour is not green enough, a little saff'ron and indigo spirit judiciously mixed will give the required tint. It must be remembered in serving absinthe that it never comes in contact with metal spoons. This is possibly because vitriol is largely employed abroad in its manufacture. A small liqueur glass of absinthe is poured into a wine glass, and the water added as one would add oil to a mayonaise sauce, that is, a drop at a time, until as much water is added as the consumer pleases to use. We shall not have occasion to refer to absinthe again, as it is a drink which should be decidedly discouraged. Essence of Tansy Is frequently used in American beer drinks. It is prepared52 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. in this way. Half fill ^ a gallon jar with tansy leaves. It must be remembered if the leaves are fresh, from one-half to two- thirds of the quantity will be sufficient. If dry, the quantity stated. Fill up with gin. Steep for six days. Filter and bottle. Brown Colouring Is a decoction made from brown sugar or caramel. Put 7 lb. of unrefined sugar into an old iron pot or pan. Stir it until it has become a perfectly dark brown. When all the sugar is thoroughly turned, have ready a gallon kettle filled with boiling water. Commence to stir in the water by de- grees, till the gallon of water is transferred from the kettle to the pot. Let it come to the boil, skimming off all the froth as it rises, and then let it boil very gently from f of an hour to an hour. It can be then strained through a tammy sieve and bottle. Some people deepen the colour by adding i lb. of ground chicory tied in a muslin bag and boiled for the hour with the sugar. This makes a very dark colouring indeed, and must be used with judgment. The chicory imparts no flavour to the colouring. Raspberry Vinegar. No. I.—Pick 3 gallons of red or white raspberries in dry weather, place them in a large pickle jar, and pour over 1 gallon of white wine vinegar. Infuse for 3 or 4 days, keep- ing the jar tied down with brown paper; next turn the contents of the jar into a perfectly clean jelly bag, or into a very fine tammy sieve, and let it drip into a clean basin. Carefully measure the liquid which should be clear and bright. Add 1 lb. of lump sugar, or refined pearl sugar to each pint of liquid. Put it into an enamelled pan, and stir with a wooden spatula or silver ladle till the sugar is dis- solved. I always pursue the ' Bcim Marie principle. Care-COWSLIP VINEGAR. 53 fully skim it and when it reaches 2i2°F., keep it at that point for about J to f of an hour. Remove it from the ^ Bain Marie^ and keep stirring the liquid till it is about 6o°F., then add 1 pint of plain spirit for every quart of liquid. When cold, if the colour is not intense or bright enough—" tone up," bottle, cork and seal. N.B. On no account use iron or metal saucepans. The former especially is highly detrimental to acid goods. In the heating process, a chemical change takes place which robs the vinegar of its keeping qualities, and in a degree neutralizes its acid principles. No. 2.—Is a method of making raspberry vinegar, much practised in Yorkshire among the elder housewives. The vinegar is of fair colour, and excellent taste. The receipt has been sent me by an old lady relative, for many years housekeeper in the Fitzwilliam family. Put the fruit say 2 quarts or 1 gallon into a preserving pan, and stir till the juice runs, taking care that it does not burn. Dip a jelly bag into boiling water, and wring dry. Pour the contents of the preserving pan into the bag. Return the juice to the pan, and to each pint, add 1 lb. of sugar. Boil up and skim, and let the scum drain into a basin, and return the clear juice. When no more scum rises the liquor is ready for the vinegar, add pint for pint, and be sure the vinegar is white distilledy To each pint, add J a gill of French brandy, e., about ^th. of a pint. No. 3.—Take a pint of spirit essence, or syrup of rasp- berries, (see 47,69, 73). and add to it 1 pint of distilled white wine vinegar. Cowslip Vinegar Is one of the delicate resources of the caterer, (and figures in some American drinks), so that it must not be lost sight of. Take of cowslip pips 1 quart, white wine vinegar 354 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. pints. Seal down in a bottle for 10 days. A few sweet briar tops if obtainable, say about 3 to the pint, make an appreciable addition to the excellence of the flavour. Strain and bottle for use. Black Currant Vinegar. Take 1 quart of ripe sound fruit, and 1 pint of young black currant leaves, put the fruit and leaves into the pre- serving pan, stir them with a wooden spatula until the ber- ries come to the boil. Put them into a jelly bag. Strain and squeeze every drop of juice from the berries, return the liquor to the preserving pan, adding lbs. of refined sugar for every quart of juice. Stir until the sugar melts, skim it and drain the skimmings on a large tammy sieve, returning the juice that falls through to the preserving pan. When it is cold, add IJ pints of best vinegar to every quart of syrup. If it is to be kept some time, add 1 pint of plain o.p, spirit to each gallon of vinegar. Red Currant Vinegar. Make as above, using red currants instead of black, and a little cochineal colouring to tone up. Red and Green Gooseberry Vinegars. The fruit must be gathered when fully ripe. The red and green hairy gooseberries are best for this purpose. Mash the gooseberries with a wooden masher, and put 1 lb. of crushed lump sugar to each 2 lbs. of gooseberries. Stir in the sugar amongst the gooseberries, and let them lie for about 2 hours. Put it into a jar or a preserving pan and scald the fruit and juice. Strain through a jelly bag wrung out of warm water or common vinegar, and stir into it 1 pint per gallon of plain spirit. Then mix with equalESSENCE OF CAPSICUM. 55 parts, white wine vinegar, or if such a strong vinegar is not needed, add a pint to the quart of syrup. Essence of Vanilla. Cut up a vanilla stalk, and place in a porcelain funnel filter, such as that used by chemists. Fill the filter with genuine 60^ o. p, spirit. Allow it to filter slowly through into a glass bottle. This operation can be repeated 3 or 4 times with fresh spirit. Cork and seal the bottle. Vanilla Sugar. Put 3 vanilla pods into a quart of spirit, let them stand from 14 to 21 days, then pour the spirit on broken lump sugar, dry the sugar slowly, grind and lawn sift it, seal and bottle for use. The quart will saturate 14 lbs. of sugar. Essence of Ginger. Bruise 1 lb. of fine white Jamaica ginger, put it into a jar with 1 quart of o.p, spirit. Steep for 3 weeks, shaking the bottle every day. Then strain and filter, and you will have a quintessence of ginger. During the time of infusion if the jar is kept at 70° F., the process of absorption by the spirit of the essential essence of the ginger will be consider- ably greater than if the maceration takes place in a cooler temperature. Ginger Syrup Can be made from the above receipt, by taking some stock syrup (see page 87) and flavouring it to the strength required with the essence of ginger and a few drops of spirit of capsicum. Essence of Capsicum. Take 1 lb. of chillies, (red peppers) or red capsicum pods.56 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. put into a jar with ^ gallon o.p. spirit, and i gallon of distilled water. Cork up and steep for a month, shaking every day for the first fortnight. You can then commence to use it, straining and filtering as required, and adding more spirit in proportion to what you have used. The chillies will last for a long time, and mind it is powerfully strong." Essence of Cherries. Take f lb. of red Kentish morella cherries and J lb. of black geans or wild cherries. Stone them, crack the stones and put the whole into a stone bottle with a quart of proof spirit. Let it stand for a month. Draw off 1 pint of the spirit, filter and bottle it in a 3 pint bottle. Add another pint of spirit to the cherries, shake it up, let it stand 3 days, then strain cherries and all through a flannel bag. Filter once or twice if necessary through paper, and mix with the first infusion. Ratafia of Quince. Cut 1 lb. of quinces in thin shaves with a silver knife, also J lb. of angelica, 1 oz. of bruised coriander seed, 2 pennyworth of oil of juniper, 1 gallon of proof spirit, 1 pint of boiled soft water, and 1 gallon of store syrup, (see page 87). Place in a stone jar closely sealed for 6 weeks. Then strain and filter, and if not bright enough from the quince, add saffron colouring, and /one to standard. Essence of Arrack. Pure arrack is a spirit obtained in India, from the juice of the palm tree, but it is generally imitated by an infusion of flowers of Benjamin in rice spirit. Take 40 grains of benzoic acid and dissolve in 1 pint of white rum or plain spirit. It is then ready for mixing.N O Y E A U. 57 CHAPTER Vlir. Liqueurs and their Manufacture. THERE is nothing so nice or so dainty as a well made liqueur. Although they are expensive to purchase they are not very expensive to manufacture. It is the one point where the Hotel keeper may recoup himself for losses on other goods. One of the most common and popular liqueurs, is Noyeau. This is a private receipt of my own which I have worked for the last 14 years with the greatest success. Make a syrup of 6 lbs. of lump sugar in the usual way by covering it with water, using little less than i a gallon. Beat up the whites and shells of 2 eggs, and whisk until it comes to the boil. It should be very slowly heated so that the sugar may be all dissolved before it does boil—(use one of the old fashioned wire whisks,) give it a good boil up, and let it stand a minute or two to gather up impurities, strain through a felt jelly bag. It should be perfectly clear after passing through the bag. It is usual to steep the bag in clear boiling water, and wring it dry before passing the syrup through. Before it grows cold, stir into it a 1 oz. bottle of " Stevenson and Howell's" essence of almonds. Bottle one half in the proper bottles, as White Noyeau. Tinge the other very slightly with cochineal. Bottle, cork, and cap- sule for Pink Noyeau. This can be retailed at from 4s. 6d ; 5s., or 7s. 6d., per bottle, according to your customers,—as there are some people who would not thank you for it, unless you charge them top market prices, then your productions will be delicious.58 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC, Maraschino. A first class maraschino is prepared from 7 lbs. of morella cherries, bruised in a mortar, and each stone withdrawn and cracked. A little practice will soon enable you to with- draw the stones from the cherries. Work the cherries with he fore finger and thumb of the right hand, holding the jtalk with the left. In rolling try to ease the flesh from the ;op of the stone, then you can draw the stone out from the cherry and you will find it still attached to the stalk. When the stones are cracked and the cherries bruised, put them into a two gallon jar with 3 lbs. of the leaves of the wild cherry, (gean.) or if these are not obtainable use the same quantity of peach leaves, J lb. of red rose leaves, 1 oz. fresh orange flowers, 1 oz. white jessamine flowers. The flowers must all be bruised either in a marble mortar or by a wooden mallet, or masher. Metal unless silver, should not be used. Put into the 2 gallon jar with the cherries, add 6 lbs. of lump sugar, and 5 quarts of p, plain spirit. Macer- ate for one month. Filter and bottle. Curacoa. Take 12 fine skinned Seville oranges, peel them as thinly as possible, and 1 oz. of fresh orange flowers. Put them into a gallon jar. Make a syrup of 2 lbs. of sugar, and pour it while hot over them. When it is cold remove the cork, and add 2 quarts of 0. p. spirit. Let it steep for a fortnight, during which time it should be rocked frequently, then filter and bottle. If the colour is not right, tone up with saffron. Another Method.—Is to make a syrup of 3 lbs. of sugar as for noyeau (see previous receipts.) When strained add the contents of a 1 oz. bottle of essence of orange, and 1 oz. of treble distilled orange flower water59 LIQUEURS. Orange a la Prince. Slice i doz. fine rinded St. Michael's, and 1 doz. Seville oranges, place them in a jar with 1 oz. of orange blossoms, or use 1 oz. of orange flower water, add 14 lbs. of lump sugar, 2 gallons of water, 2 gallons of o. p. spirit. Infuse for 10 days, filter, bottle, cork and seal. Eau D*Or. Make a quart of good sugar syrup, 3 lbs. sugar to 1 quart of water. Stir until the sugar is dissolved. Clear with white of egg, and strain through a flannel bag into a basin. As the syrup stands in the basin, float in two leaves of gold leaf. When they have settled on the top of the syrup, with a silver spoon take some of the syrup and pour it over the gold leaves. Add 1 oz. of *' Stevenson's and Howell's" essence of almonds, i an oz. of their spirit lemon essence, and i an oz. of their treble distilled orange flower water, 1 pint of white rum or plain spirit. Put into clear Russian glass spirit bottles. The gold leaf should be equally divided amongst the bottles. This can be done by using a silver skewer with the spoon and breaking it up into tiny flakes. In serving shake the bottle before pouring into the liqueur glass as each is supposed to contain some tiny specks of gold. Eau D'Or. No 2. This is is a more complicated method. Blanch J lb. of bitter almonds, bruise in a mortar with J lb. of loaf sugar. Put into a half gallon jar, with 2 oz. of thinly peeled lemon rind, i an oz. of orange flowers. Cover with 2 quarts of 0. p. spirit. Macerate for a fortnight. Add to a quart of clear syrup 2 gold leaves, cover with the syrup as before60 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC mentioned, break it up into flakes. Filter the spirit in the jar and add it. It is then ready for bottling. Kirchenwasser, or Kirchwasser Can be prepared with or without distillation. To distil Kirchenwasser. Take a clean brandy cask, remove one end and put a layer of ripe wild black cherries (gean.) Cover them with a layer of wild cherry leaves, or peach leaves, then a layer of cherries, then leaves, alternate layers, until the cask is half full. Boil in a copper sufficient water to fill the remainder of the cask. When it is nearly cold pour it over the fruit. Cover up and let it stand 2 hours, then with a wooden shovel or mixer, work it well up, so that it is mixed, cover the top with fine wood ashes, and leave it for 3 weeks or a month, to ferment. Then remove the ashes and distil. Add to the spirit thus produced, fine sugar syrup, equal in quantity to the spirit obtained. Colour slightly with cochineal. Bottle in straw-covered bottles. Kirchenwasser without Distillation, Is much less trouble and not at all expensive. Take essence of cherries 1 oz., essence of almonds i oz., 1 pint of cochi- neal, J oz. of solferino. Mix the essences with 1 gallon silent 0. p. spirit, then add a gallon of good syrup. Mix thoroughly, leave it 3 days, then filter off. After filtering see how it looks. It may require either a little solferino, or indigo adding, or a little more cochineal, whichever it is, add it and then bottle. Liqueur de Quince. Grate 12 quinces or crush in a small cider press. Pass the pulp into ajar, with 3 lbs. of lump sugar, and cover with 1 quart of white rum, or plain spirit, cork closely for 10LIQUEURS. 6l days, and see that it is well shaken during the time. Then strain through a jelly bag, and filter into a clean jar. Add 1 oz. of spirit essence of bitter almonds, 2 oz. tincture of coriander seed, 1 oz. tincture of cloves. Stir the whole well together, leave for 2 days and bottle. Liqueur de Framboise. Take 3 lbs. of red and white raspberries mixed. Put them in a jar, with 6 lbs. of sugar, 1 quart of distilled water, and 3 quarts of plain spirit. Rock every day for a week. Be sure that in all these cases the jars are closely bunged up with sound corks, and use sealing wax if necessary, as the first expense will be the least. At the end of a fortnight, filter; first through a jelly bag, and then through paper. Tone to a pretty pink colour, with either cochineal, or cud- bear. Bottle in clear glass bottles. Liqueur de Cupidon. No. i. Or Cupid^s Liqueur is very fashionable at wedding breakfasts. Steep 3 lbs. of rose petals in 4 quarts of plain spirit from 8 to 10 days. Drain off and filter into a clean mixing jar. Add 1 oz. treble distilled orange flower water, ^ oz. of tincture of cloves, J an oz. tincture of coriander, 2 quarts of fine clarified white sugar syrup. Add to the syrup before bottling two leaves of silver, and two leaves of gold leaf. After moistening the gold and silver leaves with syrup, break them into little flakes with a silver skewer. Tone the spirit to a deep rose red. The syrup will reduce the colour a little. By the way, the colour must not be too intense and yet bright. Add it to the syrup, then proceed to fill the bottles, equally dividing the leaf. Square Russian glass decanters are the proper thing for this.62 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. Liqueur de Cupidon. No. 2. A GREAT deal of trouble may be saved by making the liqueur in this method. Take 2 quarts distilled rose water, 5 pints of plain spirit. Add the orange flower water to this, and continue as in the last receipt to the finish. Fleurs des Oranges. Take 1 lb. of fresh orange flower petals, bruise slightly in a mortar and put into a warm jar. Cover with half a gallon of 0. p, grain spirit, add 1 doz. green leaves of the orange plant. Pound in the mortar in which the flowers were bruised, 4 lbs. of fine lump sugar, and add to the spirit. This will absorb any moisture left by the flowers. Add the rind of a small thinly peeled lemon, cork the jar securely, shake it well. Leave it to stand for a month. Filter, bottle, seal, and cork. Liqueur d'Amour. Take \ lb. of lavender flowers; 2 oz. of red rose petals; 1 oz. of blanched bitter almonds; bruised in a mortar, with a little sugar. Infuse the whole in a gallon of 0. p, spirit for one month, shaking well every day. Then strain and filter, and if necessary put into a clean jar and fine with alum and salts of tartar. Then draw off, and add to half a gallon of clarified syrup; perfume with thirty drops of commercial spirit of musk or geranium, add 3 leaves of gold-leaf, damp with syrup on the upper side and break into flakes with a skewer. Colour the whole a delicate pink. Bottle in clear glass bottles. Liqueur de Battenberg. Take 1 gallon of proof spirit, and add 1 oz. each of the following tinctures: coriander; clove; and lemon; i oz. ofLIQUEURS. 63 orange flower water; i oz. of rose water; and i gallon of clarified syrup. Put in silver leaf flakes when bottling. Colour a pale blue. N. B. This is the fashionable liqueur for wedding parties this season. Serve in delicate white liqueur glasses. Liqueur de Rosicrucian. To J gallon of 0. p, spirit, add 2 oz. of treble distilled orange flower water; 1 oz. of rose water; 2 oz. of spirit of jessa- mine flowers ; 1 oz. of commercial ambergris ; tone to a beau- tiful rose colour. Pour some syrup on a plate or dish, lay on it 3 leaves of silver and 4 leaves of gold leaf, break them into flakes, mix with 1 gallon of clarified syrup, and add to the liqueur. Then bottle. This is used at Masonic dinners. Liqueur Eureka. To one gallon of 60 0, p, spirit, add l-8th oz. of violet essence; l-8th oz. of cachou essence; J oz. of essence of prunes, 1 oz. elder flower water, and 3 drops oil of winter green. Blanch and mince very fine, 8 dozen good well- coloured pistachio nuts. Divide them equally, into 6 quart liqueur bottles. Mix the oil of winter green with 2 lbs. of sugar in a mortar. Put it into a jar, add the spirit and essences, and lastly 3 pints of clarified syrup. Shake well. Leave 3 days to clear. Have the nuts freshly minced and in the bottles. Pour the liqueur to them ; then bottle, cork and seal. In serving, shake the bottle. Liqueur D'Apprenti. Pure spirit 1 gallon; 1 oz. of essence of coltsfoot; 1 oz. of essence of cowslip1 oz. of essence of white heart cherry; and 1 oz, of essence of hawthorn. Mix with 3 leaves of gold leaf, and add 3 quarts of syrup. Mix and bottle.64 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. Liqueur Maconnique. Take 1 gallon of 60 o. p. spirit; add 1 oz. of distilled laven- der water; 1 oz. of essence of barberry; 1 oz. of orange flower water; and J oz. of essence of syringa. Mix with J a gallon of syrup; add 1 oz. of essence of cloves; colour with saffron, and bottle. It should be a bright maize colour, and will be quaffed by the newly elevated apprentice with amazing results. Liqueur de Bacchus. Take half a pint of strong clear syrup, add \ pint each of Maraschino, Curacoa, Kirschwasser, and 1 pint of Mott's Leicester cowslip wine. Mix, add one or two gold leaves. Bottle, cork, and seal. Liqueur de Prince de Galle. To 1 gallon of 60 o. p. spirit, add ^ oz. of distilled orange flower water; 1 oz. of ambergris; J oz. of spirit of Juniper; \ oz. of essence of musk ; \ oz. of spirit of sweet balm ; and \ oz. each of the tinctures of clove, coriander and cherry. Add to it a gallon of clear syrup. Colour red, and bottle. Liqueur Criterion Steep 1 oz. of angelica root, in \ pint of pure spirit for three days. Drain off and add to a gallon of 60 o. p. spirit, add 1 oz. of the following tinctures, veronica; cinnamon ; cassia; dried orange and clove. Add j- a pint of elder-flower water; 1 gallon of clear syrup. Colour green with spinach juice. It is then ready for bottling. Liqueur Eucalyptus. Take 2 lbs. of dried eucalyptus leaves; 5 oz. of juniper berries ; J lb. of orange flowers. Infuse for 14 days in 1LIQUEURS. 65 gallon of pure spirit, frequently shaking the contents of the jar during the first week. Of course it must be closely corked. At the end of the fortnight, strain and filter, and mix with J gallon of clear syrup. N.B. This is used in cases of low fevers, exhaustion, and as a "pick me up," after wine parties, &c. Another of the same type is Liqueur de Coca. Take 4 oz. of coca leaves ; infuse in i a gallon of 0. p. spirit for 14 days; strain and filter; add to it 1 oz. of essence of rosemary; and J oz. of esssence of vanilla; and 2 ozs. of spirit of juniper. Mix with i a gallon of clarified syrup. It is then ready for bottling. This is a "pick me up" greatly used by authors, accountants, and persons of sedentary and studious habits. Liqueur de Sante. Take J a gallon of white rum ; 50 young bay leaves; 1 oz. of red sage leaves; 2 ozs. of juniper berries. Let all the leaves be as freshly gathered as possible. Steep them in the white rum for a fortnight; strain, and add to the liqueur, after passing through the filter, J oz. of essence of pepper- mint ; and 1 gallon of clarified white sugar syrup. Colour with saffron. Mix well with brush mixer; leave three days to settle and bottle. N.B. This is a capital liqueur for pains in the back, sides, colds, and kidney affections, while at the same time it is a popular dinner accompaniment. Liqueur de Cannes. Take 6 lbs. of raspberries; bruise them in a mortar; place in a jar. Pound 3 lbs. of Bordeaux bottled plums (prunes) in a mortar, breaking each kernel; grind 1 oz. of orris root, E66 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. mix with the plu'ms and put in a jar with the raspberries. Cover with 1 gallon of o. p, spirit, add 7 lbs. of clean lump sugar chips or dust. Rouse it up well with a brush agitator. Cork up and leave it in a warm corner to infuse for 14 days. Strain, filter, and colour a deep red. Bottle, cork, and seal. A very pleasant flavouring for custards or fruit tarts, is made by adding to the fruits in the jar, 1 lb. of fresh rasps, and \ a gallon^of 40 u. p, spirit (under proof); letting it stand for a fortnight then add about a quart of common syrup to it. Bottle, cork, and seal. Liqueur De L'Inde. Take of tamarinds 1 lb.; J lb. of quinces, sliced; 1 lb. of red rose petals; 1 oz. of cloves; \ oz. of nutmegs; i oz. of ginger; the last three to be ground. Cfrris root is added by many to this; it is a mere matter of taste, I prefer it without. Macerate all these in J a gallon of silent spirit; steep for 21 days; strain and filter; add 1 oz. of spirit of capsicum and 1 gallon of syrup; tone to a good brown with caramel; bottle, cork, and seal. Liqueur Des Carmes. (Carmelite Liqueur.) Jlain spirit, 2 gallons; tinctures of coriander, cardamunl, cloves, nutmeg, 1 oz. each ; spirit essence of musk; pure balsam of Peru; essence of lemon; 2 ozs. each. Mix and add 3 lbs. of sugar dissolved in 1 pint of distilled water; then bottle. Liqueur Des Capucins. (Liqueur of the Capuchin Fathers.) 1 GALLON of brandy (white cognac); 2 ozs. of orange peel; 1 oz. of nutmeg; 1 oz. of cumin ; 2 ozs. each of the follow- ing tinctures: lemon, orange, cinnamon, parsley seeds, and juniper berries; mix and add 1 quart of clarified syrup. To67 LIQUEURS. serve this, half fill a liqueur glass, and fill up with thin syrup from a decanter. Aqua Mirabilis. Get from the herbalist, i lb. of celandine; i lb. of penny royal and marjoram ; J lb. of cowslip pips ; and put into a jar with 1 oz. each of ginger, cloves, and nutmegs; add 1 gallon of silent spirit, and 6 lbs. of loaf sugar: steep for a month; shake it well during the time. Strain off and clear with 1 oz. of alum dissolved in water while hot, and salts of tartar J oz., added after. Then bottle and cork. N.B. This is a good digestive agent, and useful in all cases of dysentry. Liqueur D'Hongrie. Take 3 ozs. of rosemary ; 3 ozs. of lavender tops ; 3 ozs. of Florentine orris root; macerate in 1 gallon of silent spirit for a month ; strain, filter, and add to a gallon of syrup. Colour red. Liqueur De Perse. Take J lb. of best quality mixed tea (Indian teas are best for this purpose, being less liable to dressing, besides it is the tea used by the Persians for the purpose); pour on it 1 pint of cold distilled water; let it lie in the water over night to in- fuse, then drain off the liquor ; add 7 lbs. of sugar, and when dissolved, mix with 3 quarts of plain spirit. It is then ready for use. To improve it, add orange-flower water, 1 oz. To serve; a small liqueur glass. It can be used also for ices and creams. Liqueur de Cafe. No. i. (Coffee Liqueur.) Take 1 lb. of blue, and 1 lb. of green coffee berries* Roast them in a small gas coffee roaster, putting in J oz. lard while roasting. When they are a little cool, take them68 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. out and grind them. Steep them in 1 gallon of proof spirit for a fortnight then drain off the liquor, mix with i gallon syrup. Tone with caramel to a deep brown. It is then ready for bottling. Some manufacturers use the coffee merely as a flavourer, and prepare the liqueur (No. 2.) thus: ground chicory 1 lb., roasted horse beans 1 lb., freshly ground coffee J lb., 1 gallon sugar syrup, and 1 gallon proof spirit. The goods are soaked in the proof spirit, strained, filtered, and added to the sugar syrup. I always use No. 1. receipt, and if my readers will take the trouble to make a small sample of each, they will see why I like the pure preparation to the mock. The first preparation is far better too for ices, creams, and high class goods. Liqueur de Pistachio. Blanch J lb. of pistachio nuts. Beat them to a paste in a mortar with 1 lb. of sugar; blanch also i lb. bitter almonds, and J lb. of Barbary sweet almonds. Pound them to a paste in the mortar, with another pound of sugar, drop- ping on the sugar as you pound J oz. of pelargonii essence. Then put the whole in a jar with -J- gallon of white rum. Infuse for a fortnight, strain, filter, and add 2 quarts of clarified white sugar syrup. Colour with strained spinach juice to an apple green, or use vegetable green colouring 1 oz. of dissolved gum Arabic is very useful when put into the jar with the pistachio nuts whilst infusing. Strain and bottle. Liqueur de Cacao, f Cocoa Liqueur.) One pound of Cadbury's cocoa beans, freshly roasted. Bruise them and put them into a jar with 3 lbs. of white sugar, and 1 gallon of plain spirit. Infuse for 3 weeks, keep- ing the bottle in a warm position. It should be rocked tooLIQUEURS. 69 and fro every day, so as to extract the essence flavouring. Then strain off and filter, adding the contents of an oz. bottle of vanilla essence. Bottle and cork. Liqueur de Geneve et Groseilles Noirs. (Black Currafit Gin.J Take a wine glass of gin out of each bottle, and put in a wine glassful of bruised black currants, 2 young leaves from the black currant bush, and 3 lumps of sugar. Cork and seal. It will be ready for use in a month. No. 2. For immediate use. Take J gallon of clarified sugar syrup, and J gallon of 33^ under proof gin. Mix and add the contents of an oz. bottle of essential essence of black currants. Put it in a glass or China barrel for imme- diate sale after mixing. No. 1. Raspberry Liqueur. To 1 gallon of 33° m. p. gin, add 2 lbs. of rasps that have been bruised, rummage them up well, and let them settle for 24 hours. Draw ofi" and filter, and add J gallon of thin syrup, colour with cochineal. Put in a glass barrel for sale. N. B. This is a famous beverage at Teviperance Fetes, No. 2. Raspberry Liqueur. A quickly made edition of the above. Gin 1 gallon, syrup J gallon. Mix and flavour with concentrated essence of rasps, 1 oz. Put in jars or bottles, and it is ready for sale. Liqueur des Peches. Nos. i and 2. (brandy peaches.) Take 1 dozen ripe peaches. The)- miist nut be over ripe or decayed. Skin and halve them with a silver knife. Take out the kernels and crack them, remove the almonds, blanch them, then lay them neatly and regularly in rows in a large glass jar such as Confectioners use for cherry brandy.70 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. Strew over them 1 lb. of pearl sugar, and leave them till next day. They should be placed cup wise with the hollow to the top of the jar, and in every other half peach lay one of the blanched kernels. Add 3 pints of cognac and 1 of clarified syrup. Mix before adding to the peaches. Tie down and in a month the liqueur will be fit for sale on add- ing another quart of brandy, 40u, p. Another quickly made essence for rapid sale, and where customers will not require to see the peaches is No. 2. 1 gallon of silent spirit, 1 oz. of concentrated essence of old cognac, 1 oz. bottle of peach essence, \ oz. of citric acid crystals pulverized, and dissolved in water. Mix with 1 gallon of clear syrup. Put in a China jar for sale. N. B. If peaches should be demanded by the cus- tomer, open a tin of American ones, (Thurber's are best.) Lift them carefully out into a jam pot, strew pearl sugar plentifully between each layer. Tie a brown paper over the top. Put them into the oven and bake for 1 hour at a moderate heat. Lift out the jar, add a few drops (very few) of peach essence, (bitter almonds.) When cold tie down. To serve, draw off a small liqueur glass of peach brandy. Lay the half peach from the jam pot on a glass plate, pour a tiny drop of the liqueur in the hollow, have a plated (or silver) spoon to eat it with, and your patrons will enjoy it. I am only afraid my readers will be too modest to use No. 2. in preference to No. L I never, never, at least hardly ever do, as I should be ashamed to make double profits; It is against the rule of our noble trade to do so. L'Esprit de Paradise, Or Perfumed Cognac. Amongst the aristocracy and upper middle classes in Paris the grand dame would as soon think of dispensing with her Eau de Cologne, Toilet vinegai'i Rouge, or Blanc de Perl as with this, to her new-found trea-LIQUEURS. 71 sure. It takes the place of chloral and laudanum, so much indulged in by society belles, but the misfortune is, they insist on the chef manufacturing it, suh rosa. Here is the receipt, just to hand from a Parisian confrere, Francois Andre : Take i lb. of dried poppy heads (or 1 lb. of green); place them in an earthen jar with § gallon of cognac. This is her^ metically sealed and placed on the hot plate over the stove for three or four days, where it is subject to a gentle uniform heat. It is then strained through a jelly-bag, kept specially for the purpose, and every drop of juice gently expressed from the poppies. To this add 3 pints of clear syrup, and 2 drops each of the essential essences of geranium, cloves, and cinnamon. It is then bottled, and when wanted, decanted into the pretty toilette bottle for miladys use. Cherry Brandy a L'ltalliene. Open a quart tin of Thurber's white heart cherries. Empty them into a cherry brandy vase. Pour on them 1 quart of gin (common rough); 1 quart of white brandy; 2 quarts of syrup. Let it stand a fortnight, when it is ready for use. Morella Cherry Brandy. 1 lb. of cherries; 1 bottle of concentrated essence of cherries; 2 quarts of syrup; 1 quart of rough gin. Ready for immediate sale, especially if the cherries are scalded (not cooked) in syrup before putting into the jar. Pine Apple Rum. Take 1 gallon of Jamaica rum, coloured, and m. p, 40^ ; add 1 oz. concentrated essence of pine apple. Put in a glass barrel and it is ready for sale.72 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. Ginger Brandy Liqueur. To 2 quarts of brown brandy, u, p. 40° ; add 2 quarts of syrup; 1 oz. essence of ginger, or ginger spirit. Put into a glass barrel, and it is ready for use. Clove Cordial Gin. To 2 quarts of rough gin, add 2 quarts of syrup, and 2 ozs, of essence of cloves. Bottle, and it is ready for use. Ginger Cordial Gin, Make as for Ginger Brandy; using gin instead of brown brandy. Liqueur Chartreuse. (Imitation.) Prepare this as directed by Messrs. Stevenson & Howell, with their Chartreuse Essence. Liqueur Barberry. Take 7 lbs. of barberries; bruise them with a wooden mallet or in a marble mortar; put them into a jar with 7 lbs. of clean lump sugar dust; pour over it 1 gallon of 0. p. plain white spirit. Infuse for 10 days. Strain and filter. Take several of the finest bunches of the barberries. They must be quite dry. Boil them in clarified syrup for 10 minutes. Lift out the bunches and lay them in a cherry brandy jar of clear glass. Colour the barberry liqueur with a little cochi- neal or cudbear. Do not make it too high coloured, so that the barberry sprays may be clearly seen through it.LIQUEURS. 73 Red Currant Gin. Strip 7 lbs. of red currants from the stalks. Put them into a preserving-pan with a pint of water. Let them come to the boil. Strain through a jelly bag that has been dipped in boiling water, and wrung out, or through a lawn strainer. Return the juice to the pan with 7 lbs. of sugar. Stir with a wooden or silver spoon until the sugar is dissolved. Skim carefully and clarify it with the whites and shells of 2 eggs. I like to put the whites and shells of the eggs in when I put the sugar, but care must be taken by novices, that the sugar is all melted before the liquor commences boiling for the clearing. When it has boiled up, turn out the gas, but do not touch the preserving pan. Let it stand for 3 or 4 minutes, and then strain through a clear jelly bag or strainer. When it is quite cold, add to it 1 gallon of rough unsweeten- ed gin. Mix well, and it is ready for use. Add a tinge of cochineal if by any chance your liqueur should not be of a good colour. General Remarks. These simple Fruit Liqueurs and Gins are very good methods of using up large quantities of fruits left over from public breakfasts, luncheons, dinners, &c., which might otherwise be sold to the waste cartSy or appropriated by the small boys of the establishment. They can be made in smaller or larger quantities according to the fruit you have at your disposal, or if you wish to make them into Syrups. Boil the fruit as for red currant gin, and put about 1 pint of any spirit except rum, to the gallon of syrup, just to make it keep. They can then be sent for use*to serve with ice pud' dings, &c.,74 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC, Apple Brandy. Take 2 lbs. of sour cooking apples and 1 quince; peel and shred with a silver knife. Put this into a jar containing 3 lbs. of white refined lump sugar and 1 gallon of pale brandy. Shake well for the first few days. Let it lie for one month. Then strain, filter, bottle, and seal. From this—Jersey apple toddy; apple brandy; and honey nectars, are made.75 HOME MADE WINES. CHAPTER IX. Home Made Wines and Ciders. IN many country houses, and in many English villages you will find that hardly any beer is drunk, and either home made wines or ciders are used. Even many members of Temperance Societies whilst objecting to the use of beer, ale, spirits and foreign wines; do not object to drink what are called home made British wines and cordials, and very creditable specimens they turn out in many cases. Wine made from every day garden fruits, and vegetables are as strong if not stronger than some of the cheap spirits and old ales vended in our trade. At least they are quite as heady. To prepare the wine one wants by way of apparatus a tub capable of holding about 12 gallons. By the way, I hardly need mention, that in case any amateur wine manufacturers should come across this little volume, that parrafin barrels with the heads sawn off are hardly suitable, and do not im- part a suitable bouquet or flavour to the wines manufactured in them. The tubs should be thoroughly clean and free from all flavours. About two inches from the bottom there should be a tap and a piece of galvanized wire gauze nailed on the inside, to prevent any of the must i, e.y lees or fruit, &c., from which the wine has been manufactured—passing out with the liquor. A pitcher and a good barrel and stand are also necessary. It is of the utmost importance the fruit used should be gathered in dry weather. It should not be what is termed dead ripe, nor yet too young and green. Sour White Wines Are made from unripe fruits, just at the stage of ripeness that a thrifty housewife would select for gooseberries when76 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. intending to manufacture green gooseberry jelly. We will take the light wines, as they are called, first. English Hock. Take the tendrils and thinnings from the graperies. Bruise them all with a wooden mallet, put them into the fermenting tub, with two to three gallons of grapes and tendrils. If you cannot secure this quantity, add sour apples or rhubarb to complete it. Boil in a copper 3 gallons of soft water, adding 7 lbs. of sugar. Stir till the sugar is dissolved. Let it boil 20 minutes to half an hour. Skim, damp the fire out, and allow the water to become coolish. Pour this over the fruit and tendrils in the tub which should not be in a draught, but kept in a temperature of from 62^ to 68^ F. Stir the contents of the tub once or twice during the first two or three days. Keep it covered, and let it work until the head ceases working and commences to sink. This should be skimmed off very carefully and the liquor put into a clean sherry cask. Then let it work for a few days. Draw off half a pint of the liquor, soak 1 oz. of gelatine in it for 2 hours, melt it over the fire. Whip it up a little and add by means of a tunstal, to the wine in the barrel. Rouse up well, so as to get it thoroughly mixed with the liquor. Bung down securely, and it will be ready for use in from 6 to 8 months. Ginger Wine. * Bruise 3 lbs. of ginger (best white,) add the rinds of 12 oranges, and 3 lemons. Boil these in 10 gallons of water, with 20 lbs. of loaf sugar. Pour it into the fermenting tub, and when cool, ferment it with yeast and let it work for a couple of days. Draw it off after skimming the head as before directed. Place in the barrel, fine with 6 whites ofHOME MADE WINES. 77 eggs and shells, whipped up with a little of the wine, and added after the after fermentation has ceased. Bung up and in 3 months it will be fit to drink. Ginger Wine,—Simple Method. (Trade.) \ Gallon of plain spirit, 3 oz. of spirit essence of ginger, (concentrated double strength,) 2 oz. essence of orange, thin syrup clarified 4 gallons. It is then ready for use. If the colour is not deep enough add a little safi^ron, and if a brown colour is preferred, colour with caramel. Cowslip Wine. Slice 1 doz. lemons to every bushel of cowslip pips, put the pips and lemons into the fermenting tub, also a handful of sweet briar tops. Boil in a copper 6 gallons of water and 10 lbs. of glucose. Stir it till it boils, skim it well and let it boil half an hour, then pour it boiling hot on the fruit and flowers in the tub. When it is cool ferment with \ a pint of sweet white yeast. Rouse the yeast well into the water. Cover with a cloth and let it work for a few days. When the working ceases and you notice the head becoming flat, skim it carefully off, strain it into the cask. Put \ an oz. of saffron flowers in with it. Fine with soaked and dissolved gelatine 2 oz. Bung up, and in 6 months time you will have a clear beautiful wine. If it is liked, sugar may be used instead of the glucose, but the wine will not have nearly such a smooth rich flavour. Cowslip Cordial. (A Mock Wine.) Make 4 gallons of very thin syrup well boiled, and clarify it. Mix it with \ lb. of cowslip essence, J of a pint of clarified lime juice, and 1 oz. of ordinary lemon essence. Put in a China barrel and sell. If cowslip wine has run short this is a good and cheap makeshift. Colour with marigold or saffron.78 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. Marsala. (Imitation,) Take 7 lbs. of raisins, pass them through a mincing machine—put them into the fermenting tub. Prepare a wort of 2J gallons of water, boiled with 4 lbs. of brown sugar, and pour on to the raisins. The wort should boil from to f of an hour. Stir the raisins well up, so that they may thoroughly mix with the water. Cover it up with a clean blanket. Stir every day thoroughly for 3 days, and leave it to ferment. In about a fortnight or 3 weeks, it will become perfectly still; then is the time to take off the head, strain the liquor and press the fruit. Put it into a small 3 gallon cask, leave it for a few days with the bung out, fine it with good ale finings. In 3 days draw off and bottle in champagne bottles—cork and wire, and you will have a delicious sparkling wine; but if you allow it to re- main for 6 months in the barrel, it will resemble Marsala more than anything else, and can be bottled accordingly. Damson Wine. See that the fruit is gathered in dry weather. For every gallon of wine you wish to make, you must have \ a gallon of fruit. Bruise the fruit and if you take the trouble to crack about 100 stones from each gallon, so much the better will the wine be. Supposing you wish to make 7 gallons of wine, take 3J gallons of damsons. Boil 3J gallons of water, and 7 lbs. of sugar together. Pour this in a boiling hot state over the fruit. Stir it up well and add a tea cup full of yeast, when it is nearly cold. Cover it over with a blanket, and let it work away for 3 or 4 days. Then when the head is fiat, skim it off, strain and press the juice from the fruit. Put the liquor into a sweet brandy barrel with 1 lb. of raisins passed through the mincing machine.HOME MADE WINES. 79 Leave the bung out of the barrel until the sissing noise has done. Then if you have not had the fortitude to crack the stones, through fear of dyeing your fingers, add i an oz. of almond essence, stir it up well in the wine, then add your finings and bung down. Damson wine will require to stand 8 to 10 months before it is mellow enough for use. Bilberry Wine. The bilberry, whortleberry, huckleberry, and blueberry, are all pretty much the same thing. In the autumn you can buy as many hampers as you like at Covent garden. They are splendid for colouring faded wines, &c. They make a good wine of themselves, far superior in my idea to that glory of an Englishman's hearth mulled elderberry,'* on a winter's night. From the Yorkshire and Scotch heaths, you can get them far cheaper than.elderberries, and however medicinally good elderberries may be, still they have a sickly taste from which the bilberry is free. Whilst on the one hand, the elderberry is easily detected in the adulteration of port and other red wines ; the presence of the bilberry is not noticed, and is only traceable by its action on litmus paper, and the applications of certain chemicals. To make bilberry wine, take 2 gallons of berries and 4 gallons of water. Boil the water with 14 lbs. of sugar^ and 3 lbs. of fine treacle, skim it well, and add 1 pint of raw lime juice. Mash the berries in the ferment- ing tub, pour the boiling liquor on; ferment with yeast; When the fermentation ceases, take off the head; strain the liquor and the fruit. Put it into a clean brandy cask; or if it is a stock cask see that it is perfectly clean and free from mustiness. (If you have any doubt as to the cleanliness of the cask, make a strong solution of soda and water. Soda is very searching. The quantity I use for a foul cask is 7 lbs. to 9 gallons. Fill the barrel and let it stand 24 hours.80 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC* Rummage out and fill with clear spring water. Let it stand a few hours, then the barrel is fit for use.) Fine it, and if you like to draw it off at the end of 3 days, supposing you have used ale finings, you will have a splendid sparkling red wine. Temperance champagne if you like to call it such. If you fine in the ordinary way with soaked gelatine, allow it to stand 6 months, and you will have a splendid still wine for blending purposes with port, bordeaux, &c. Parsnip Wine. This is a very favourite wine among country housekeeper's; I cannot say I am partial to it, as it is very sickly in taste, and it is only the ginger and other condiments the house- wives put to it, that make it at all palatable to my mind, but chacun a son gout,^ I will give the receipt: 6 lbs. of par- snips peeled and cut into quarters or one-eighths, according to the size. Boil them in 2 gallons of water, and 4 lbs. of sugar, and 1 oz. of cream of tartar. The latter will take off the sickly taste but it can be omitted at pleasure. Put the whole into the fermenting tub and let it cool; add 1 gallon of boiled water; 2 ozs. of bruised ginger; and 2 ozs. of bruised cloves. Let it steep for 12 hours, then add the yeast for fermenting—stirring it up well, whilst adding the yeast. Draw off the liquor, and put it in a small 3 gallon cask. I believe the orthodox method is to leave the wine in the cask for two years, after fining. Then bottle for use; or if con- signed to the bottles at the end of 6 months, it is put into the cellar for a further period of 2 years ; and if kept for 4 or 6 years, (if not turned to vinegar—in which state, by the way, I prefer it,) it is said to surpass every other wine that ever was made—especially if made only of parsnips, water, and sugar.8i HOME MADE WINES. Black Cherry Wines. 2 GALLONS of black cherries, or wild cherries; mash them and put them into a tub ; make a wort of 3 gallons of water; 10 lbs. of sugar; and 2 ozs. of citric acid crystals. Boil and skim, pour the boiling liquor on the cherries; stir in 1 lb. of ground malt and when the liquor is cold ferment it with a little yeast. The malt prevents the wine being flat as wild cherry wine is apt to be. When the liquor has done fer- menting, skim it. Put into the cask, J lb. of cinnamon, and J lb. of allspice, bruised, and 1 oz. of cloves ; but if you pre- fer to save trouble in bruising the spices, use cherry essence, then add the liquor. When the after-fermentation has sub- sided, clear with 1 oz. of dissolved and soaked gelatine. Bung up. It will be ready in from 8 to 12 months. Blackberry and Plum Wine. Blackberries by themselves are rather sickly, and require lime juice, citric acid, cream of tartar, or something of the sort to give it a gout. But when the wine is made with pur- ple egg plums, damsons, sloes, snigs, (the christians of Dor- setshire,) or bullaces, it gives it a tone that is pleasant, as being derived from one or other of the sources mentioned. To make the wine : Take 3 gallons of blackberries freshly gathered during dry weather. Put them, \ ^ gallon at a time, into a preserving pan with a pint of water, stir them over the fire until they come to a boil; then strain them through a jelly bag, putting the liquor into a clean vessel; repeat this until all the blackberries are done. To every gallon of the liquor, add \\ lbs. of plums, and 3 lbs. of sugar, and to the whole I gallon of boil ed water. Put this into a mash tub, ferment it with yeast, and when it has done working, remove the head and cask it. Many people put all the fruit into the82 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. barrel and leave it for 12 months to clear, without additional finings. Apple Wine. Take 9 gallons of sweet cider; add to it 1 pint of the essence of brandy ; a dessert-spoonful of powdered nitre; and 2 lbs. of glucose; rummage well together. Let it work well, having put in a spoonful of yeast to start it. When it has settled, fine it with Boby's ale finings. Draw off in 3 days into a clean cask or bottles. This will be found to be a superior wine. Cider. It is cheaper to buy the cider in bulk from the cider makers and bottle it if you have no quick sale for it on draught. A very good drinking cider for family use, may be made by grating J lb. of apples of a rather tartish taste dividing them equally into two quart champagne bottles. Put in each a table- spoonful of crushed lump sugar (any kind of sugar will do); fill up with spring-water, cork, tie down with wire or string, keep in a warm corner, and in 3 days you will have a splendid applejack champagne. A slice of quince in each bottle is a great improvement. This is an American drink, and is a great favourite in coun- try districts during the summer season. You can tell it is not a town drink by the rough and ready style of manu- facture. Rhubarb Cider. Take 28 lbs. of rhubarb, gathered on a dry day, cut it into 2 inch lengths, and pound it with a wooden mallet. Add to it 3 gallons of cold water; stir it well, so that the rhubarb may mix with it. Cover the tub over and let the liquor begin to ferment. When the surface is covered with yeast, beginHOME MADE WINES. to skim it. Put the skim on to a sieve, so that it may drain. Return what drips through to the fermenting tub. Do this until no more yeast rises. Then put it into a cask with 3 lbs. of sugar to each gallon of liquor, reserving about ^ a gallon of the liquor out to fill up during the after fermentation, which will occupy about a fortnight. Then fine with gelatine or ale finings if you prefer them. Let it rest two months and it will be fit for drinking.84 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. 'HIS department of our book may be very useful to the 1 barman and the barmaid in the concoction of drinks, as well as to the hotel-keepers, confectioners, and others. The editor of one of the journals for which I write, says, they have 365 distinct drinks in America. I calculate they have. One for each day in the year," he says. But then he is a regular young man, very particular, and very proper, but he does not know what we do when we are let loose, in America. Why bless his innocent heart, we have as many drinks as there are hours in the night only we dare not tell him, or he might think our acquaintance with the bar-room was a little too intimate. But to be serious, I shall endeav- our in this and the following chapter, to give my readers a good insight into bar mixings, and the bar method that would be pursued by a trained bar-tender. The very first item in the arrangement of an American bar, is that most essential of all elements :— There must be plenty of apparatus for washing up and drying, whether the bar is indoors or out. For pity's sake do not arrange them as some Englishmen do, to represent a true American bar, to show an idea of American cleanli- ness by people that have never been there; they supply the unfortunate bar-man, or tender, with one little dirty second hand green and white oyster tub, a spoonful of washing up water in a rusty can ; so that before half the day's washing up is done, the liquid in the tub looks like peas soup, and the two towels served out are before noon like a couple of dish cloths. Give plenty of towels, plenty of water, 2 or 3 CHAPTER X. American Drinks. Qeanliness.AMERICAN DRINKS. 85 enamelled baths, or tin tubs, that can be kept clean and bright, you will find it will pay in the long run. Parsimony and dirt will drive away would be customers, while bright- ness and cleanliness, and a moderate expenditure in absolute necessaries will draw customers, quadruple your income and rapidly repay your outlay. Keep the glasses bright and clean. Never leave dirty glasses about. The moment a customer has finished remove the glass. If he calls for another of the same, mix it in a clean glass, he may have been smoking, and the fumes of the tobacco or some of the nicotine from the pipe may have tainted the first glass. It would not be perceptible to the drinker then, but would be in a second mixing, or to another person tasting out of the glass. Attractiveness. This is another very important item and will not cost so very much. Flooring boards can be bought cheap, sawn into 4, rounded and painted, and used as flag staffs or up- rights, on which cross beams can be placed, and cheap copper wire baskets hung from them containing ferns and mosses. Ivy grown in pots, and placed in brackets, or on shelves amongst the glasses. Pots of musk, grasses, &c., all grow in the shade, or in rooms, and look pleasant, cool to the eye, and inviting; vases and arrangements of cut flowers should not be neglected. The design and arrange- ment, as well as the selection of flowers, should be varied, differing in style each week, and in keeping with the season. Never be ashamed if you are reduced to having only a few sprays of asparagus leaves, and a gaudy nasturtium or two. Herbs Used in Making the Drinks. Sweet scented verbena, plays a very important part in the manufacture of American drinks. This in all good bars86 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. is kept growing on the tree, and forms a part of the bar decoration. Verbena drinks may not be called for, for 2 or 3 days. Again there may be a regular run for them. An Englishman picks the verbena out before he tastes, throws it on the bar counter, tastes his liquor from the glass and then begins to drink it through the straws. He does not like the method, throws away the straws and gulps it down, and thinks that American drinks are not so very prime after all. It is the bar-tender's business politely to tell them how it is used, and that without offence, or seeming to teach. Sprays that are thrown away can be washed and re-used, but sprays that remain in the glass until the julip is drunk through the straw, can not be used again. Mint, &c., Should be cut and the stalks freed from the leaves for about an inch, and then placed in boxes of silver sand and watered 2 or 3 times a day. To use, take a pair of scissors, clip them off and use in the juleps. The mint—roots and all can be kept growing in soup plates, with plenty of water, and it does not make a bad back of the bar decoration. Tansy, wormwood, lavender tops, &c., should all be kept fresh, and the lemons, quinces, limes, Seville, and St. Michael oranges, fresh fruits, &c., should all be of the best quality. Glass, &c. Have plenty of glass—coloured and white; from the small doirs liqueur glass for absinthe, to the large red and green hock and claret glasses; tumblers Finger and stalk") from the pony tumbler to the large lemonade glass, known in America as large and small bar glasses; from the small rummer on the stalk to the large whiskey toddy glass ofSTOCK AND STORE SYRUPS. 87 Scotch fame. A word about glasses. A finger glass is a cut glass tumbler of small size, the London pony in fact. Ice. A PLENTIFUL supply of ice and ices, are always required for a first class bar, or for matter of that for any bar that pretends to serve American drinks. If you want real suc- cess in the turn out of your ices for ice drinks, have one of "Marshall's'' Cavendish Square Patent Freezers. They are just the very thing. They will make the clear lemon water ice of the Manchester Belle Vue Gardens, the pink and cream coloured confections of Spier's and Pond's Inventories, or the " Hokey Pokey two a pen—nay*' of that charming in- congruity of Italian artistic well eh,—not cleanliness, that vends condensed milk and corn flour frozen, to troops of little mud larks in the dens and slums of the city. A block of Norwegian ice on the counter always looks cool, a drain can be made from it into the tank containing bottles of aerated water. There should be a plentiful supply of good ice made daily, from pure filtered drinking water, to be used in the drinks—of course a cheaper can be bought for counter purposes—but it is wiser to make the ice for the drinks at home, and of filtered water. Utensils. Have a good supply of sharp knives, one or two of " Neal's Pyro-Silver" are the best wearing plated knives I know of for cutting lemons, fruit, &c. Pulpers, lemon squeezers, should be of the newest American patterns. The first important manufacture is what we call:— Stock and Store Syrup : Take a stone (14 lbs.) of the best loaf sugar. It is per- haps dearer than beet root sugar, but it is cheaper in the88 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. end; put it into a large preserving pan with 2 quarts of cold water, place it over the fire while it is still cold, add the whites and shells of 3 eggs. Whisk with a cane or wire whisk until the sugar is quite dissolved, and a fine froth on the top. As soon as it boils stop whisking. Let it rise in the pan and then turn out the gas. Dip a flannel or felt jelly bag in boiling water, wring it out quite dry, and pour the syrup into it to filter. Have two basins ready to catch it. If the first filterings are not perfectly clear, put the second basin under, and gently return the contents to the bag. The syrup should be a very pale straw colour. i'his is store syrup. So reduce it. Thin Stock, or Drinking Syrup. Mix 1 quart of store syrup with 2 quarts of boiling water, or cold distilled water. Put in a china barrel with tap for use. Mixing. I NEED hardly tell my readers, that there are two methods of mixing—the right and the wrong. Or in other words " ought will do mestur," and the artistic, scientific methods, where the mixer is an artist, and instead of giving his cus- tomers crude and rude preparations, drapes his work artistic- ally—colours it harmoniously and presents it with a polish of artistic breeding, that renders it doubly enticing, in fact *' He endows his work with artistic merit." It is my intention to take higher class drinks first—then range on to the cheaper American bar drinks.CLARET CUPS. 89 Badminton. (Claret,) From the receipt given by the Hon. Grantley F. Berkley, of Alderley Manor, Poole. Claret, 1 Bottle. Soda Water, 1 Bottle. Sugar, 3 Tablespoonfnls. Lemon, 3 Thin Rings. Borage, 2 Sprays. Cucumber, 4 inches. Mixing: Take a silver cup —slice the cucumber; strew the sugar over; pour in the claret; add the lemon. Let it stand an hour if possible. At the moment of serving to the guests pour in the soda water and add two sprays of the blue flowered borage. The Duke of Badminton's words on putting in the borage were— ** Herein I place borage, It giveth courage." Claret Cup a la Lowell. Claret, 1 Bottle. Pale Dry Sherry 1 Glass. Champagne, sec, 1 Bottle. Lemon, 1 Shaved Ice, 1 Pint. Lump Sugar, 2 ozs. Lemon Verbena, 3 Sprays. Mixing: Cut 3 thin rings of the lemon, grate the rest of the rind off on two ozs. of lump sugar; pound the sugar in a mortar and put it into the claret bowl. Throw the glass of dry sherry over the sugar. Add the claret. Just when you are going to serve put in 1 pint of shaved ice, 3 sprays of lemon verbena, and a bottle of dry champagne.go THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. Claret Cup a la Bourgeois. Take of Claret, Lemonade, Elder Flower Wine, 1 Bottle. 1 Bottle. 1 Glass. Brandy, Sugar, Lemon, 1 Petit verre. 2 ozs. 3 rings. Mixing: Pound the sugar, or use sugar dust. Throw the elder flower wine (or water) over this, next add a tablespoon- ful of brandy, the lemon rings, and the claret. Just before serving add the lemonade. Mixing: Peel the lemon very fine, taking none of the white pith ; put in a claret bowl. Put 2 ozs. of castor sugar over it and a little grate of nutmeg; now throw in the cura- coa and the sherry; next add the claret and 3 sprays of lemon thyme, washed and dried; serve with \ pint of broken ice and add iced soda water at the moment of serving. Claret Cup a la Dufferin. Take Claret, Sherry, Sugar, Lemon, Soda Water, Nutmeg and Ice, Lemon Thyme, Curacoa, 1 Bottle. \ Pint. 2 ozs. 1 1 Bottle, as wanted. 3 Sprays. 1 Glass.COWSLIP AND CLARET CUPS. 91 Cowslip Cup. Cowslip, 1 Quart bottle. Soda Water, 1 Bottle. Cognac, 1 Petit Verre. Lemon, One half. Sugar, 2 ozs. Ice, 1 Pint, broken. Mixing: Peel half the lemon, place it in the bowl. Ex- press the juice and strain it. Pound the sugar in a mortar and put with the lemon, etc., into the claret bowl. Add a tablespoonful of white brandy. Then add 1 bottle of cow- slip wine. Let it stand 1 hour: strain and ice; adding the soda water just before serving. Chablis Cup. Chablis, 1 Bottle. Sugar, 2 ozs. Lemon peel, 1 Dry Sherry, 1 Glass. Ice, 1 Pint, broken. Mixing: Rub off the rind of the lemon on to the sugar. Pound the sugar in a mortar; add the sherry; next the ice; then the chablis. Stir and serve. Children*s Claret Cup. Common Claret, 1 Bottle. Lump Sugar, 3 ozs. Lemon, 1 Rind. Spices Ground, to taste. Cinnamon, Cloves, Nutmeg. Ice, 1 Pint.92 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. Mixing: Grate the rind of the lemon off on the sugar. Put the spices and the sugar in a mortar. Grind the sugar and mix: now put it into the claret bowl. Put in the ice. Pour over the claret, and serve. If strong wine is used, put an equal quantity of cold water. Champagne Cup a la Due D'Edinbourg. Mixing: Put the slices of pine apple in the bottom of the bowl. Next cut the lemon into fine delicate rings on a plate, remove the pips. Put the whole with the juice that has run out on the plate with the pine apple; next add the rye whiskey; then the syrup; the curacoa; the sherry; the borage follows with the champagne and the seltzer water. There is sufficient quantity here for 24 guests. Do not forget to add just before serving—about a quart of shaved ice. Champagne Cup a la Due de Cambridge. Champagne, Sherry, Curacoa, Seltzer Water, Rye Whiskey, Lemon, Pine Apple, Borage, Syrup, Ice. 1 Bottle. 1 Bottle. I Pint.. 1 Bottle. 1 Pint. 1 Sliced. 2 Slices. 2 Sprays. 1 Pint. 1 Quart. Champagne, Maraschino, Bay Rum, 1 Bottle. 1 Bottle. J Pint. 2 Bottles. 2 Soda Water, Lemons, Lump Sugar, Ice, Rough. i lb.PUNCHES. 93 Mixing: Put the champagne and soda water in rough ice as soon as possible, and leave them there as long as possible; rub the lemons on the lump sugar, and when it has absorbed the rind; put it into a mortar and pulverize. Put this into the bowl; throw over it the bay rum, then add the maraschino and the juice of the lemons; stir it well up with the silver ladle. At the last moment before serving add the iced soda water and the iced champagne. Tiger's Milk Is a drink which was introduced by some friends of Stanley, the African explorer, and for which there was quite a rage amongst a certain party of Americans, during one of his recent visits to England. It is made of Sweet Devonshire Cider, 1 quart. Peach Liqueur, (Peach Brandy J J Pint. Cognac J Pint. Tincture of Cloves, 3 Drops. „ ,, Orange, 3 Drops. „ „ Nutmeg, 3 Drops. „ „ Cinnamon, 3 Drops. New Milk, 1 Quart. White of Egg, 1 Syrup Sugar, 1 Pint. Mixing: Put the syrup in the bowl ; add the tinctures, peach liqueur, and cognac; next the sweet cider; stirring the whole time. Stir in the milk and white of egg, whipped to a stiff foam. Serve with a ladle in glasses. Punch. The manufacture of good punch is considered a most desirable accomplishment. In these go-ahead days, when94 THE New guide for hotels, etc. paterfamilias finds it takes him all his time, in the great tear and bustle of life, to elbow his way in the crowd of money getters, in order to realize one-fourth the income that his fathers before him were able to procure with half the labour, and when his young sons find that society and masherism,'* occupy the whole of their time in admiring themselves, it is no wonder that they cannot manufacture the punch in the style of their grandfathers, but prefer to buy it ready made, from the wine merchant, the hotel-keeper, and the confec- tioner. And who could desire finer drinks than the speci- mens of milk punch, rum punch, and the dozens of other kinds one meets with at our own Brewers' Exhibition. I will endeavour to give a few which may be found useful. Mixing: Stand the punch bowl in rough ice; drop the lemon essence on the sugar; crush the sugar in a mortar; add the lime juice syrup and the maraschino; then the old Tom. Stir it up well from the moment that the lime juice is added. Let it rest on the ice until you are just going to serve, then add 2 bottles of iced lemonade. Gin Punch, Good Old Tom, Maraschino Lime Fruit Syrup, Sugar, Lemonade, Rough Ice, Lemon Essence, 1 Pint. \ Pint. 1 Small Bar Glass. 2 ozs. 2 Bottles. 6 Drops. Gin Punch a la Masher. 1 WINE glassful of Gin Bar Punch; 2 rings of orange or lemon ; a tablespoonful of raspberry syrup. Fill the tumbler with shaved ice, and serve.05 PUNCHES. i oz. Tincture of Cloves, Good Gin Punch for Bottling. Small Fine-rinded Lemons, Lump Sugar, Old Tom, Green Tea, Coriander Seeds, Boiling Water, 1 Gallon, ilb. 1 Dozen. 1 lb. 1 Dessert-spoonful. 1 Quart. Mixing: Rub the sugar on the lemons, till they have grated off all the yellow portion of the rind, then squeeze and strain the juice from the lemons. Pulverize the sugar; add the lemon juice to it. Pour half the boiling water on this and leave it to dissolve, whilst you infuse the tea and the coriander seeds in a closed earthen vessel. In 20 minutes strain the tea liquor to the lemon ; add the old Tom, and when cold, bottle, cork, and seal. Punch requires to be kept in a cool cellar when bottled. This mixture will be found particularly cool and grateful during hot weather. Mixing: Rummage these ingredients in the above order well together and put into jars or bottles for immediate use. To serve Gin Bar Punch. Thin Syrup, Essence of Lemon, Essence of London Gin^ 3 Quarts. J oz. i oz. Clarified Lime Juice, i Pint.q6 the new guide for hotels, etc. Golden Pippin Punch. Golden Pippins, Castor Sugar, Cognac, Chablis, Devonshire Cider, Rough Ice. 4 i lb. 1 Wine Glass. 1 Bottle. 1 Pint. Mixing: Slice the golden pippins very finely, with a silver knife. Put them in layers in a bowl; strew powdered or castor sugar between them. Pour the brandy over. Keep the chablis and cider in ice. Add the cider first. Stir the whole up well and strain into the punch bowl; add the Chablis and serve at once, with about 12 of the best rings of the apple at the bottom. Mixing: Cut the cucumber into thin rings, also half the lemon ; rub the other half of the lemon rind on the sugar and squeeze the juice on it, then pound it in a mortar, and put it into the punch bowl; add the brandy, then the cider. Mix it well with the ladle; dust a little mixed spice over the top Ice and serve. This is a very favourite drink in the Channel Islands. Jersey Cider Punch. Jersey Cider, (sweet,) Loaf Sugar, Brandy, Lemon, Cucumber Mixed Spice, 2 Bottles. 2 ozs. 1 Glass. 1 1 inch. (Ground.) Ice.PUNCHES. 97 Santiana Punch. For Bottling, White Rum, Bay Rum, Syrup, (clarified) Lime Juice, (clarified) Essence of Lemon, Infusion of Tea 1 Gallon. 2 Pints. 1 Gallon. 1 Pint. J oz. 1 Pint. Mixing, Rouse the white rum and syrup together. Add the essence of lemon to the bay rum, and then put it to the bulk of the liquor. Pour the infusion of tea on the lime juice, mix them well. Pour this into the jai or barrel, con- taining the white rum, &c. Rouse the whole well together with a clean brush mixer. Leave for 24 hours, then draw off and bottle. If kept in a cool cellar or on a freezer, it will be delicious in about three months. Shaved Ice, Strawberries ; Rasps ; or Red Currants. Mixing: Half fill a tumbler with shaved ice, add the syrup, and tincture of cloves ; mix the ice with the syrup by rotating the tumbler, then add the claret, place straws in the glass, and one or two small red strawberries, a spray if possible; or decorate with rasps or bunches of red or white currants. Claret Punch* Claret, Stock Syrup, (see page 87.) Lemon, Tincture of Cloves, 1 Glass. 1 Glass. 1 Slice. i a TeaspoonfuL G98 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. Claret Bowl. Claret, 1 Bottle. Syrup, 2 Wine Glasses. Noyeau, 1 Glass. Cucumber, 1 inch sliced. Mixed Spices, Soda Water, 1 Bottle. St. Michael's Orange, i Sliced, Ice, 1 Pint Shavedc Mixing, Stand the bowl on the ice while you mix. Put in the syrup with the slices of orange and cucumber, stir it well and add the noyeau, next the claret, then dust over the top the mixed spice, add the ice, and just as you are going to serve, pour in the soda water, mixing the whole up thoroughly with a silver ladle. Mixing, Lay the brandy peaches in the bottom of the bowl, add the curacoa and the maraschino, next the chablis, stand on the ice till it is wanted. Keep the moselle also well iced. When required open the moselle, add J pint of shaved ice, stir it well to mix the ingredients without break- ing the peaches at the bottom. Pour in the moselle, give it a stir round and serve as quickly as possible. Moselle Bowl or Punch* Sparkling Moselle, Curacoa, Maraschino, Chablis, Brandy Peaches, Shaved Ice. 1 Bottle. 1 Glass. 1 Glass. 1 Bottle. 6 Halves.I>UNCHES. 99 The Albert Victor Punch. Raspberry Syrup, 1 Pint, i Pint. 1 Glass. 2 Slices. i pint. J pint. White Rum, Curacoa, Pine Apple, Plain Syrup, Shaved Ice, Lemonade, 2 Bottles. Mixi7ig, Lay 2 slices of pine apple in the bottom of a punch bowl, add the white rum and curacoa. Mix the rasp- berry syrup in, then the plain syrup. Add the shaved ice, rouse it well up, and freshen up with the lemonade just as you are going to serve. Mixing, Mix the lime juice and cherry syrup, also the plain syrup. Stir in the bay rum and the Lome whiskey. Mix well and leave on the ice or in the freezer, till wanted. It may be as well to add the rings of lemon with the whiskey. Put in the Apollonaris water just before serving. Marquis of Lorne Punch, Lome Whiskey, Cherry Syrup, Bay Rum Lime Juice Syrup, Sugar Syrup, Apollonaris Water, Lemon, i Pint. 1 Glass. 1 Glass. 1 Bottle. 3 Rings. 1 Bottle. 1 Wine glassful.100 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. 2 Quarts. Syrup, Bridal Bouquet Punch for Weddings, &c. Distilled Orange Flower Water, Elder Flower Water, Noyeau, Lime Juice Syrup, Thin Syrup, Soda Water, i Pint. i Pint. 1 Glass. 1 Pint. 1 Quart. 2 Bottles, Mixing. Stand the bowl on ice. Pnt in the noyeau, and mix with the lime fruit syrup; then add J pint of treble dis- tilled orange flower water, also the elder flower and thin syrup. Pour in the soda water and serve. Mixing, Pare a thin rind ofl" the lemons. Let them soak in the brandy (closely corked) for 3 days, keeping in a warm temperature, and shaking the bottle frequently. Then strain the brandy ofl" to the rum and mix it well, adding the syrup by degrees. Boil the milk, and just as it reaches boil- ing point add it to the spirit. Then strain through a jelly bag that has been rinsed in warm water and wrung out. The punch should be the colour of good sherry. Bottle and store in a cool place. It will be ready for use at the end of 2 or 3 days, but six months storing will improve it. The Army Punch for Bottling. Jamaica Rum, Cognac, Lemons, Milk, 1 Gallon. 1 Quart. 6. 1 Quart.PUNCHES. lOI Arrack Punch. Rum, 1 Bottle. Essence of Arrack, 2 Glasses. Lemons, 2 Sliced. Syrup, 1 Quart. Lime Juice, i Pint. Mixing, Slice the lemons and steep in the rum for 4 hours, strain, add the arrack essence and syrup—then the lime juice. Rouse up well and either bottle at once or ice, and serve with a bottle of soda water. The Maharajah's Punch, For bottling. Essence of Arrack, 1 Quart. Peach Brandy, 1 Quart. Noyeau Essence, 1 oz. Plain Syrup, 3 Quarts. Essence of Lemon, ^ oz. Lime Juice, J Pint. Mixing: Add the essences to the brandy; pour in the arrack and lime juice. Mix well with the syrup and bottle. It will be ready for use in about a week. The Pompadours (56th Regt.) Punch. Brandy, 1 Bottle. Sherry, 1 Bottle. Syrup, 2 Quarts. Infusion of Green Tea 1 Pint. Tincture of Cloves, 1 Teaspoonful. do. Coriander 1 do. Lemons, 2 Sliced. Milk, 1 Pint.I02 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. Mixing. Steep the lemons in the brandy 24 hours in a wide mouthed jar closely tied down, then mix with the sherry, and add 2 quarts of strong syrup, next add the tea, then strain from the lemons, add the Burgundy, tincture of cloves, and coriander—rouse well together and bottle. It will be fit for use in 2 or 3 days if well iced. This punch was a great favourite with Lieuts. Walmsley and Grimes, of the above regiment. Mixing: Mix the lemon essence with the arrack. Pour the cognac into the bowl, and the arrack to it; add one or two sprays of syringa flowers ; then add the port wine. Next mix the lime juice syrup with the plain sugar syrup. Ice well and serve with the seltzer water, added at the last moment. Sufficient for 20 guests. The Begum's Punch. French Cognac, Port Wine, Arrack Essence, Clarified Lime Syrup, Lemon Rind Essence, Seltzer Water, Syrup, Shaved Ice, Syringa, or Orange Flowers. 1 Bottle. 1 Bottle, i Pint. 1 Pint, i oz. 2 Bottles. 1 Quart. 1 Pint. The Ellen Terry Punch. Essence of Vanilla, Lime Juice Syrup, Sparkling Moselle, Shaved Ice, Brandy, i Pint. 15 Drops. 1 Pint. 1 Bottle, i Pint. Lemon Verbena, 3 Sprays.PUNCHES. 103 Mixing: Lay the sprays in the bowl; mix the vanilla essence with the brandy; stir in the syrup of lime juice; ice this well. Add the Moselle and shaved ice at the moment of serving. Milk Punch, For bottling. White Rum, 2 Pints. Cognac, 2 Pints. Milk, 2 Pints. Syrup, 2 Pints. The Rind of 3 Lemons. The Strained Juice of 2 Lemons. Gelatine, J oz. Mixing: Steep the lemon rinds in the brandy 4 hours, then strain off and blend with the rum ; stir in the milk; let it stand for 2 hours. Have some gelatine soaked in a por- tion of the milk. Dissolve it over the fire; add to the punch; whip well for 10 minutes; add the strained lemon juice, and filter through a jelly bag that has been dipped in warm water and wrung out. When strained, bottle and store. Whiskey Punch, (Cold), Lome Whiskey, 1 Bottle. Lemons, 3 Sugar, \ lb. Water, 1 Pint, boiling. Mixing: Rub the rind off the lemons on to the sugar; pound in a mortar. Pour the boiling water on to the sugar, and stir until it is dissolved; add the strained juice of the lemons, and when it is cold, add the whiskey. Ice and serve.I04 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. Another Milk Punch, For bottling. Brandy, 1 Quart. Rum, 1 Quart. Infusion of Green Tea, 1 Pint. Lime Juice, 1 Pint. Essence of Pine-apple, i oz. „ ,, Cloves, i oz. „ ,, Coriander, i oz. „ „ Nutmeg, i oz. ,, „ Lemon, i oz. Milk, 3 Pints. Syrup, 3 Quarts. Mixing: Put the syrup into a 3 gallon jar; add the essen- ces, next the brandy and rum ; mix the green tea and lime juice, and pour in ; then add the boiling milk. Rummage it up well, and strain through a clean jelly-bag that has been wetted in hot water. Bottle and store in a cool place The Navy Punch. Jamaica Rum, 1 Bottle. Madeira, 2 Bottles. Curacoa, 3 Glasses. Champagne, 1 Bottle. Soda Water, 1 Bottle. Lemon Rings, 6. Syrup, 1 Pint. Rough Ice. Mixing: Mix the curacoa with the rum; add the Madeira and lemon rings. Stir in the syrup. Pour in the soda water. Ice the whole in the freezer, and just as you are going to serve, pour in the iced champagne,PUNCHES. The Irving Lyceum Punch. Barberries, 3 Bunches. Bourbon Whiskey, 1 Bottle. Cognac, 1 Bottle. Syrup, 1 Quart. Champagne, (Sec.) 2 Bottles. Mixing: Place the barberries in the punch-bowl; add the whiskey and cognac; mix with the syrup; stand on the ice till it is wanted, then pour in the champagne, and serve; the company singing ** Glorious Apollo," or Irving," which ever you like. Santa Cruz Punch. Lime Juice Syrup, 1 Wine glass. Santa Cruz Rum, 1 „ ,, Cognac, 1 Liqueur Glass. Milk i Tumbler. Ice Shaved. Ground Cinnamon. Mixing: Put the syrup into a large bar-glass; add the cognac, and next the rum; put in the milk, and fill the lemonade glass with shaved ice. Dust ground cinnamon or mixed spice if preferred, over the top, ** not too much spice^ but just spice enough^ Serve at once, with or without straws. The Pic-nic Punch. Lime Juice, 1 Tablespoonful. f Thin Syrup, 1 do. Santa Cruz Rum, 1 Liqueur Glass. Grated Canned Pine Apple, 1 Dessertspoonful. Shaved Ice, Lemon, f Thin Slice,I06 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. Mixing. Put the grated pine apple in a bar-glass, add the thin syrup, then the Santa Cruz rum and the lime juice. Fill up with shaved ice. Stir well together, with half a thin slice of lemon quartered, and serve with straws. The ad- vantage of this pic-nic punch is that the ingredients may be taken in separate bottles, and no more made than is really required. Bourbon Punch. Bourbon Whiskey, o, p. 3 Gallons. Cognac, 1 Pint. Spirit Tincture of Lemon, 1 Pint. Tincture of Seville Oranges, i Pint. Tincture of Cloves; Allspice; Coriander; 2 Fluid ozs. each. Tincture of Nutmeg, \ do. Syrup, 4 Gallons. Mixing. Place the tinctures in a large jar. Pour the whiskey over them, and mix well with the brush agitator. Pour in the syrup gradually, and mix all together. Let it stand 3 days, then bottle in dark green glass bottles, and store in a cool place till wanted. Bourbon Milk Punch. Bourbon Whiskey, 6 Pints. Cognac, 1 Pint. Rum, 1 Pint. Tincture of Nutmeg, i oz. do. Coriander, \ oz. Tincture of St. Michael's Oranges, 1 oz. Lime Juice, 1 Quart. New Milk, 3 Quarts. Thin Syrup, 3 Quarts.PUNCHES. 107 Mixing, In a large jar thoroughly blend the tinctures with the whiskey, rum, and cognac. Then add the lime juice. Boil the new milk, and the moment it is at boiling point, add to the punch. Mix well, and carefully strain through a clean jelly bag, and again through filtering paper. The liquor should be bright and clear; now add to this the thin syrup. Bottle in dark bottles, cork, and store for use. Vanderbilt Punch. Pale Sherry, 1 Bottle. Roederer Dry Champagne, 1 Bottle. Chablis, 1 Pint. Cognac, J Pint. The Juice of 4 Lemons. Grated Pine Apple, 1 Pint. Ice, 41b. Crushed Lump Sugar, ilb. Mixing. Squeeze the juice of 4 lemons into the punch bowl, on the crushed lump sugar; then add the grated pine apple. Pour over this a bottle of pale dry sherry—the cognac and then the chablis. Just before serving add the champagne and the ice—and you have a drink fit for a mil- lionaire, and fashionable this season at all the high class society balls. (Feb., 1885.) The Jefferson Rip Van Winkle" Punch. Bourbon Whiskey, 2 Bottles. Lime Juice Cordial, \ Pint. Essence of Lemon, 1 TeaspoonfuL Lemonade, 2 Bottles. Lemon, Raspberry, or Strawberry Cream Ice, 1 Pint,I08 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. Mixing, Mix the essence of lemon with the Bourbon whiskey, then add the lime juice cordial. Just when going to serve, put in a pint of raspberry ice cream in the form of a cone in the centre. Pour in your lemonade, and serve sharp in pony tumblers with straws. You can then drink " our healths and our family's good healths although you have sworn off drinking.*' Mixing, First blend the tinctures with Bourbon whiskey. Then add the raspberry spirit, see that these are thoroughly mixed; now add the brandy and the tincture of chillies, and then mix the syrup well with the whiskey and tinctures. Bottle, cork, and store, and in a week it will be ready foi sale. Empire Punch. Bourbon Whiskey, Almond Essence, Tincture of Cloves, 4 Gallons. 2 ozs. 1 oz. J oz. 1 Pint. 1 Pint. 1 oz. do. Cinnamon, Spirit of Raspberry, Cognac, Tincture of Chillies, Syrup, 7 Gallons. The Kingston Punch. White Rum, Bay Rum, Sweet Crated Water, Lemon, Plain Syrup, Preserved Ginger, Ginger Syrup, 1 Pint. \ Pint. 1 Bottle, 1 Sliced. 1 Pint. 3 Branches. 1 Wine glassful.PUNCHES. 109 Mixing, Mix the rum together. Lay the slices of lemon which should be very thin, in the bottom of the bowl, also the preserved ginger. Pour the spirit on to this. Pour in and blend the syrups with it, stand on the ice for an hour. Just before serving, add a bottle of sweet aerated water, champagne if preferred. Rip Van Winkle in a Bar Glass. Put a glass of Bourbon whiskey in the glass, then put in a 6d. strawberry lemon, or raspberry ice, fill up with a split lemon, use straw in drinking, and you will fancy you are in the realms of the ancient gods drinking the nectar of Apollo himself. The Quebec Punch. Rye Whiskey, 1 Quart. Jamaica Rum, 1 Pint. Lemon, 1 Sliced. Thin Syrup, 3 Pints. Ice Shaved, 1 Pint. H Mixing, Cut the lemon into five rings, add the rye w^hiskey, Jamaica rum, and syrup. Blend thoroughly—stand on the ice for an hour. Add shaved ice, and serve. Iceberg Punch. Bay Rum, 1 Pint. Maraschino, 1 Pint. Champagne, 2 Bottles. Lemons, 2 Sliced. Syrup, 1 Pint. Ice, 4 lbs. or more. Mixing, Freeze a large block of clear water ice, fixing in it bunches of grapes, strawberries, barberries, &c. It1 lO THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. should be in shape like an obelisk, or cone, and if you j| cannot freeze it, have a block cut. Place this in the centre of a silver punch bowl. Lay in the lemons, which should be beautifully sliced. Followed by the rum and maraschino ; in which the syrup must now be well blended. Pour in the champagne, and serve, and iceberg punch will be pro- nounced the thing for Summer Fetes on broiling days. Sliced Pine Apple, 2 Rings quartered Mixing. Lay the sliced pine apple at the bottom of the bowl, and pour the cognac upon it; then add the dry sherry and the sauterne, stand the bowl in the ice for one hour. Put in the lemon water ice, add the sparkling moselle, (which should be well iced) and serve. Mixing. Dissolve the sugar in the hot tea. Stir in the jelly, and place the jug containing them in hot water, or in a Bain Marie^ so that they may keep nearly at boiling point. Into a punch bowl put the curacoa, the juice of 2 lemons, The Monaco "Casino'' Punch. Sauterne, Dry Sherry, Cognac, Sparkling Moselle, Lemon Water Ice, 2 Bottles, 1 Bottle, i Pint. 1 Bottle, i Pint. Lord of the Isles Punch. Islay Whiskey, 1 Bottle. Curacoa, J Pint. Lemons, 2. White Lump Sugar, 3 oz. Strained Hot Infusion of Green Tea, i Pint. Arrack, 1 Dash. Guava Jelly, 1 Tablespoonful.Ill PUNCHES. and the rind of half a lemon, very thinly pared, and cut into squares of half an inch each. Add the whiskey, then the tea. Stir in a small liqueur glass of arrack. Serve. N.B. If too strong, add more infusion of green tea sweetened. Encore'' Punch. "Encore" Whiskey, 1 Bottle. Maraschino, i Pint. Calves' Foot Jelly, i Pint. Honey, 2 Tablespoonfuls. Lemon, 3 Rings. Infusion of Hot Green Tea (strained) 1 Pint. Brandy, 1 Glass. Mixing, Dissolve the jelly in the hot tea and add the honey. Keep it in the jug in which it is dissolved, until ready to serve, stand the jug in boiling water. When ready for serving; put the whiskey and maraschino with the 3 rings of lemon into the bowl. Pour in the hot liquid from the jug and serve. The Baronet's Punch. Old Dublin Whiskey, 2 Bottles. Lemon Jelly, 1 Pint. Hot Green Tea, 1 Pint strained. Curacoa, 1 Glass. Brandy, \ Glass. Honey, 1 Tablespoonful. Mixing, Select 2 bottles of the P. brand of old Dublin whiskey. Strain the hot green tea into a jug, mix in the honey and the lemon jelly. Stand the jug in boiling water to keep the contents thoroughly hot till wanted. Then into the punch bowl pour in 2 bottles of the whiskey, add the curacoa. Stir in the mixture out of the jug--dash the112 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. brandy over the top, and serve one of the smoothest, most delicious drinking punches under the sun, and as you drink say more power to ye." The D. W. D. Pot Still Punch. Perhaps some of our readers will wonder what D. W. D. means. It is a Celtic term, which men learned in that tongue; students of Sanskrit, Hebrew, and other old world languages, together with the professors and graduates of Trinity College, Dublin, agree in translating as signifying " Decidedly Wise Drinking." It stimulates the faculties, &c., &c., if you want to know the rest ask a Trinity College ** Boy," or try the following yourself. D. W. D. Whiskey, 2 Bottles. Orange Jelly, 1 Pint. Hot Green Tea, 1 Pint, (strained.) Honey, 1 Tablespoonful. Maraschino, i Pint. Bay Rum, 1 Dash. Mixing, Mix the tea, honey and jelly, keep them hot in a jug standing in boiling water, until the time of serving, have the punch bowl hot. Pour in the contents of the jug, add the whiskey and maraschino, then the bay rum, stir up and serve. General Notes. For hot punch, the bowl should be always warm by standing in boiling water; the hot water, or hot condiments I consider best put into the bowl first, but that is a matter on which caterers disagree, and with which I shall not interfere, only I believe scientifically speaking, the strength of the spirit and its flavour is better retained when added to the boiling hot fluids, than when the liquids are addedTEMPERANCE PUNCHES. to thu spirit, but as I said before Every one to his taste and style, if he considers that best.'* I give the receipts as they have been handed to me. CELEBRATED TEMPERANCE PUNCHES. Lord Wolseley's Punch. Sliced Bananas, 6. White Sugar, 3 oz. Montserrat Cherry Syrup 1 Pint. Grated Pine Apple, 2 Tablespoonfuls. Montserrat Orange Champagne, 2 Bottles. Shaved Ice, 1 Pint. Mixing. Slice the bananas after peeling lengthwise, strew powdered sugar over, also the cherry syrup. Let them steep 3 hours, then add the grated pine apple, (canned.) Add the ice and the Montserrat champagne, and serve at once. This will be found to be a delicious and cooling Temperance drink. Wilberforce Punch. Montserrat Strawberry Syrup, 1 Bottle. do. Aromatic do. 1 Glass. Fresh Strawberries, 1 lb. Montserrat Vin Sante 2 Bottles. Shaved Ice, 1 Pint. Mixing. Lay the strawberries in the bottom of the punch bowl. Add the syrups, stir it all well and leave it on the ice for 2 hours—add the vin sante and shaved ice, and serve quickly. This is one of the newest and most exquisite drinks of the season. (June, 1885.)114 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. The Broadlands Temperance Punch. Montserret Limetta, 1 Bottle. do. Pine Apple Cordial, i Bottle. Fresh Pine Apple, 2 Slices. Orange Flower Water, 1 Glass. (or Fresh Orange Flower Petals.) Shaved Ice, 1 Pint. Schweppe's Lemonade, 2 Bottles. Mixing, Lay the pine apple at the bottom of the punch bowl. If orange flowers are to be used, they must be added now. Add the limetta and pine apple cordial. Stand the bowl on ice for 2 or 3 hours before serving. Then add the shaved ice and the lemonade at the last moment. The S. C. Hall Punch. Montserret Lemon Cordial, 1 Bottle. do. Clove Cordial, 1 Glass. do. Raspberrry do. \ Bottle. Fresh Raspberries, 2 or 3 Sprays. Seltzer Water, 2 Bottles. Mixing. Pour the cordials on two or three fine sprays of red and white raspberries not over ripe. Let them stand on the ice till wanted. Then add about one bottle and a half of well iced seltzer water. There is enough here for from 15 to 20 guests. Exquisite for garden parties.THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. I 15 JULEPS. It does not take long to describe a julep, but for all that they are the most indescribably delicious drinks it is possible to manufacture. To make a straight Mint Julep. You will require 3 or 4 sprays of fresh mint, the in- gredients will be, a glass of brandy, a glass of fine syrup, fill up with shaved ice. Place the sprays of mint upright having first dipped them lightly in rum. Dust them over with caster sugar. Cut thin rings of orange and lemon, one of each,—halve them and semi-quarter, fix them, like butter- flies amongst the mint. Place a straw across the side and serve. Balm Julep. One wine glassful of peach brandy, J glass of cognac, 1 wine glassful of syrup. Fill up with finely shaved ice, arrange the balm neatly, sprinkle it with noyeau. Dust with sugar; arrange white and red currant berries amongst the stems, serve with straws. Tansy Julep. Take 6 freshly washed tansy leaves. Put in the bottom of a bar glass, a tablespoonful of white castor sugar, or better still, a wine-glassful of syrup. The syrup and the sugar mixing makes all the difi'erence between the coarse and re- fined methods of serving; besides if there is a rush to the bar, the expediency of the syrup method is very palpable. Next take a wine-glass of gin, a dash of noyeau. Fill the tumbler with shaved ice, arrange the tansy sprays. Mix with them strawberries, cherries, blackcurrants, or any fruits onIl6 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. hand for decoration. Rub the rim of the glass with a cut lemon. Serve with straws. The White House Julep. Put a wine glassful of cognac in a saucer, a wine-glass of syrup in a large bar-glass with a dash of Maraschino; set the brandy on fire, dash it into the Maraschino and syrup; fill up with shaved ice; fix up with mint; decorate with sliced peaches, fresh or canned; dust over with sugar; place straws at either side of the foliage, and serve. The Raspberry Julep. Take one glass of raspberry syrup ; put it into a large bar- glass ; add a liqueur-glass of cognac; fill up with shaved ice, decorate with sprays of raspberries (leaves and fruit); dust over with sugar to imitate winter snows; and serve with straws. The *'Erin-go-Bragh" Julep. 2 WINEGLASSES of mellow Irish whiskey, '' the real cratur-^^ add a wineglass of syrup; fill up with shaved ice, trim with mint sprays and lemon rings; rub the rim of the glass with lemon. Serve with straws. Barbadoes Julep. White rum 1 glass ; bay rum J glass; syrup 1 glass. Fill up with shaved ice ; rub the rim of the glass round with lemon. Decorate with sweet balm and sliced bananas or small ripe grapes. Serve with straws. The Texan Julep. Take 1 large wineglass of claret; a dash of old rye (Monongahela); a glass of syrup ; fill up with shaved ice.JULEPS. 117 Decorate with mint or balm. Fix off with barberries on bunches, whortleberries, wild grapes, peaches, rasps, or what- ever fruits are in season. Serve with straws. The St. Thomas Julep. This is a favourite drink in the Bahamas. Madeira, 1 glass ; a dash of cognac ; a glass of syrup. Fill up with ice. Decorate with mint and thin slices of water melon ; dust over with sugar, and serve with straws. The Sacramento Julep. 1 GLASS of American hock; a dash of old "Crow" Bourbon ; a glass of syrup ; shaved ice to fill. Mint. Deco- rate with thin half rings of orange and lemon. Rub the rim of the glass with pine apple, and lay one thin strip of the pine apple on the mint right across the tumbler. Dust with sugar and serve with straw. TEMPERANCE JULEPS. Orange County Julep. Take a large wineglass of orange cordial; a dash of lime juice; fill up with shaved ice; decorate with mint and sliced orange. Dust with sugar and serve with straws, in a large bar glass. Strawberry Julep. 1 WINEGLASS of Strawberry cordial in a large bar glass; a dash of lime juice ; decorate with strawberries after filling the tumbler with broken ice; and serve with straws.Il8 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. The Belle of Baltimore Julep. 1 WINEGLASS Montserrat pine apple cordial; a dash of clove cordial; fill up with shaved ice; decorate with mint, thin slices of water melon and pine apple; dust with sugar and serve with straws. The "Dandy Jim" Julep. This is a Carolina recipe. A glass of good lemon cordial ; a dash of cachou syrup; fill up with shaved ice; trim with mint and thin rings of lemon ; 3 grapes, on a bunch, skimmed and dipped in white pulverized sugar; lay on the mint and serve with straws. The ''Catskill" Julep. 1 WINEGLASS of blackberry syrup; a dash of lime juice; fill up with shaved ice; no fixings, except a ring of lemon. Serve with straws. Jerry's Quadroon Julep. 1 GLASS of whortleberry (bilberry) syrup; 1 glass of lime juice cordial; fill up with shaved ice; decorate with mint, whortleberries; and serve. The Creole Julep. 1 GLASS of red currant syrup ; a dash of bilberry (whortle- berry) syrup ; a glass of lemon syrup ; fill up with shaved ice ; trim with mint; decorate with red and white currants; sprinkle with sugar and serve. N.B. The Creole " and the '* Quadroon " are two of the most delicious American temperance juleps. A variety of juleps may be made from the few specimensSMASHES. I I 9 (out of the many hundreds which are used in the States) given above, according to the taste and ingenuity of the bar tender and his satellites. We will conclude this section of American drinks with the famous Wedding Julep. Take a glass of orangeflower water, a dash of lemon, and a dash of cloves, a glass of syrup, fill up with shaved ice; decorate with syringa flowers, white heart cherries, white cur- rants, white fruits, pine apple, melon, or anything else that takes your fancy. SMASHES OR SQUASHES. A SMASH or squash, is first cousin to a julep. A Bourbon Smash, Is mixed in a pony-glass. INGREDIENTS. Bourbon Whiskey, 1 Glass. Syrup, 1 Tablespoonful. Orange, 1 Ring. Shaved Ice. Mixing: Put in the spirit and syrup; fill up with the ice, lay the orange on the lop, and serve with a straw. Rye Smash. Rye Whiskey, 1 Glass. Syrup, 1 Tablespoonful. Broken Ice. Lemon, 1 Ring. Mixing: Fill two-thirds of the glass with broken ice; add the syrup—give it a good shake round; then add the glass ofI20 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. rare old Monogram " rye. Cut the iemoii ring in two, semi- quarter it, lay it on the top of the ice, and serve with a straw. Gin Smash. Good Old Tom, 1 Glass. White Sugar, 1 Dessertspoonful. Water, 1 Dessertspoonful. Broken Ice, and Orange or Fresh Fruit in season. Mixing, I have purposely here given the sugar mixing which is the popular though not the aristocratic method of sweetening drinks. The high class bar, prepares a syrup for public use. The rough and ready houses serve the raw material. Perhaps the raw sugar has an advantage. It takes longer to mix with sugar than with syrup. It keeps the customer longer in the bar, and men and women are like flocks of sheep, they follow their leader. Where there is a crowded bar—you may be sure people will want to com.e. To mix, put the sugar first in the pony glass, then the water; stir it round and round until the sugar is nearly dissolved, then add the gin, fill up with broken ice. Note that when a few pieces of the ice are in, the glass should have one or two good turns to blend the contents, then add the rest. Lay slices of orange or a little fresh fruit on the top. Brandy Smash. Cognac, 1 Glass. Syrup, 1 Table spoonful. Or, Sugar and Water, 1 Dessert spoonful each. Broken Ice, Brandy Peach, 1 Slice. Mixing, Into a pony glass, pour the prescribed quantity of cognac, add the syrup, a little ice, give it a good blending.SLINGS. 121 Fill up the tUQibler with shaved ice, lay a thin ring of brandy peach on the top and serve. Mulberry Smash. Mulberrry Juice, 1 Glass. Syrup, 1 Tablespoonful. Shaved Ice. Seasonable Fruits. Mixing, This is a Temperarce drink—add the syrnp to the strained mulberry juice in a pony glass, fill up with shaved ice, decorate with fruits, and serve. Irish Whiskey Smash. Coleraine Irish Whiskey, 1 Large Glass. Syrup, 1 Tablespoonful. Lemon Rings, 2. Shaved Ice. Mixing, Pour the syrup into a pony glass, add the whiskey put a little knob of ice in, and mix. If there is any more room—add ice—and lay the lemon rings as a garnish on the top. SLINGS. Are just cold or hot toddies, and are a sort of modification of juleps and smashes, a Gin Sling Consists of 2 teaspoonfuls of sugar, London gin 1 glass, water, \ glass. Lump of ice as large as a chestnut. Take a sugar crusher, put it into a smaller rummer or stalk glass.— Add two teaspoonfuls of ground lump sugar. To this add the water, and commence to manipulate so as to dissolve the sugar; when the sugar is dissolved add the gin, pop in a122 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. lump of ice. Grate a little nutmeg on the top, and hand gracefully to your customer. Bourbon Sling Is made of Bourbon whiskey in precisely the same fashion as above. Brandy Sling, as for Gin. Whiskey Sling Is made on the gin sling pattern, rather, with Irish, Scotch, or Rye whiskies as a foundation. Never forget the ice, and the grate of nutmeg on the top. Mother's Milk Sling. Whiskey in a small bar-glass, plenty of it, and strong. Fill up with milk, a lump of ice, and serve. Omit the sugar and water: the milkman will no doubt give you plenty of the latter, The Morning Delight. Take a good stiff glass of white rum. Fill with new milk, a lump of ice. Drink and tell your wife when you get home What a delightful thing is new milk fresh from the cow eh ! boys ? The Office Seeker's Consoler. If you have been haunting the President and the White House, day and night for 3 months without success—take the consoler's beverage. Initiate the President into the mixing and you will get any office you like to ask for," said the bar tender as he poured into the glass the following mixture; A glass and a half of ''rare old rye" a dash of curacoa filled up with milk fresh from the cow, and a lump of ice as big asSHRUBS. I 23 a walnut. The seedy man drank it, and when we saw him again, he was in office. It was the milk of human kindness that did it. The Coney Island Refresher. A Glass of cognac, a dash of peach brandy, or Noyeau. Fill up with new milk, pop in a lump of ice, and you will have a more agreeable refresher than any of the New York barristers. SHRUBS. The manufacture of rum, and other shrubs for drinks is another portion of the bar trade, as it works up into various American and English drinks, which are both palatable and popular. The best known of these perhaps, is Rum Shrub. Rum, 2 Gallons. Seville Oranges, 6. Small Lemons, 6. Sugar, 4 Pounds. Mixing. Peel the oranges and lemons very thin, and put them in the bottom of a four gallon cask or jar. The cask must be chemically clean, and no musty smell about it, or the shrub will be spoiled. Pour the rum on to the peels. Strain the squeezed juice of the oranges and lemons—and add to the rum. Stir in the sugar. Rummage well, and leave it for a fortnight, rocking it occasionally during the first week, so that the sugar may properly dissolve. At the end of the fortnight draw a little off—and if not perfectly clear, from the over-ripeness of the oranges—or other cause —soak 1 oz. of gelatine, (loose quality,) in cold water, dis- solve over the fire—and add to the rum whilst hot. Rum-124 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. mage well for 20 minutes. Bung up and leave for 3 days. Draw off carefully and bottle. Another Shrub Is made of orange rinds and juice put into a jar with a gallon of rum, and 1 quart of syrup. It stands for 3 months and is then filtered and bottled. A Quickly Made Shrub Is prepared from Rum, 1 Gallon. Syrup, i Gallon. Essence of Orange, 1 oz. Essence of Lemon, i oz. Clarified Lime Juice, J Pint. Mixing. Put the essences to the rum, add the lime juice. Rummage in the syrup. Put in a china or glass barrel and it is ready for sale. Brandy Shrub. Brandy, 1 Gallon. Lemons, 6. Cowslip Essence, i oz. Lump sugar, 2 lbs. Mixing, Peel the lemons very thin, steep in the brandy for 24 hours, pour the juice of the lemons on to the sugar, and add to the brandy. Rummage up well, leave it corked up for a week, but don't forget to give it a good shaking occasionally, to mix the sugar. At the end of the week strain, filter, add the cowslip essence, and bottle. Cherry Shrub. Pick Kentish Morellas or real Morellas, I gallon. Put them in an earthenware pot, and place them in a ''BainNIPS. Marie " or iron pot with water coming lialf way up the jar. Stew them till the juice is extracted, then strain it through a tammy. For each pint of liquid add 1 lb. of lump sugar. Put it into a jar and let it stand until it is bright. Then bottle and if required for keeping, add 1 gill of spirit to each bottle. Brandy is considered best. White Currant and Red Currant Shrub, Are made in the same way. In Philadelphia, they make the shrub in the preserving pans, boiling up the fruit first as for jelly, adding 1 lb. of refined sugar to the pint of juice, boiling it gently for 8 or 10 minutes, skimming it well and adding 1 gill of brandy to each quart of shrub. White and Red Raspberry Shrub Is made in the same way, and is an excellent drink. Also bilberries. To SERVE Shrubs. Pour a wineglassful into a large bar tumbler, fill up with iced water, and serve. For those who like it, a dash of spirit, such as brandy, Irish whiskey, or gin may be added. NIPS. Petits Verres, or Tasty Nips, Are served in sherry glasses, or large spirit wine glasses. They are generally composed of a mixture of liqueurs, syrups, and spirits, and must be put into the glass in the order specified. Thus a nip of La Grande Dame Is prepared this way, Eau D'Or, \ Wine glass. Raspberry Shrub, J do. Brandy, \ do. Total 1 Wine glass. Serve.THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. Total, 1 Wine glass. Le Petit Maitre. Maraschino, i Wine glass. Orange Bitters, i do. Cognac, i do. Total, 1 Wine glass. Parisian Petit Verre. Curacoa, J Wine glass. Fleurs Des Oranges, J do. Cognac, i do. Total, 1 Wine glass. Masonic Nip. Liqueur De Rosicrucian, i Wine glass. Pale Brandy, J do. Total, 1 Wine glass. The Criterion Nip. Liqueur Criterion, J Wine glass. Lemon Cordial, J do. London Gin, J do. Total, 1 Wine glass. The Workman's Nip, Pine Apple Cordial, J Wine glass. Clove Cordial, J do. Rum, J do.127 NIPS. Total. 1 Wine glass. The Old Woman's Nip. Clove Cordial, J Wine glass. Gin, i do. Total, 1 Wine glass. The Young Lady's Nip. Peppermint Cordial, i Wine glass. Irish Whiskey, J do. Total, 1 Wine glass. Irish whiskey amalgamates well with cloves, lemon cordial and Jargonelle. This will make three other nips, always re- membering that the syrup or cordial goes in first, and the spirit after. Le Beau Ideal Nip. Kirchenwasser, i Wine glass. Curacoa, J do. Old French Brandy, J do. Chartreuse, J do. Total. 1 Wine glass. Petit Verre D'Amour. Noyeau, J Wine glass. Unbroken Yolk of Fresh Laid Egg, or Plover's Egg, J do. Lemon Cordial, J do. Peach Brandy, J do.128 THE NEW GUIDE JFOR HOTELS, ETC. Other drinks can be fabricated from the samples given, and it will redound to the credit of the bar tender to exhibit ingenuity in their concoction. Variety is charming.129 COBBLERS. CHAPTER XI. American Drinks, &c. (Continued.) The Cobbler Is not only an American institution, but also is found in Australia and New Zealand. Perhaps it is the most popular of the reed or straw drinks amongst the English people, and the Sherry Cobbler Is the most common of all. The cobbler like the julep should be served in a large bar finger glass, i, e. a tumbler not mounted on a stand, in other words a lemonade glass. Sherry, J Pint. Sugar or Syrup, 1 Tablespoonful. Lemon, 2 Thin rings. Ice. Mixing. Place the lemon on a plate till wanted. Put the sherry and sugar into the glass, half fill the tumbler with ice, shake it round well so as to dissolve the sugar a little. Fill up with the rest of the ice, and fix the rings of lemon upright in the glass so that they look like half moons ap- pearing above the rim of the glass. Stick 2 straws in an upright position down the side of the glass and between the lemon strips. Champagne Cobbler. Unless syphon-stoppers or syphon-corkscrews are used the bar tender will not furnish this to less than a party of 4 for a quart bottle, or 2 Lu a pint bottle*130 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. Champagne, (Sec) 1 Bottle. Lemon 2 Rings. Shaved Ice. Syrup or Sugar, 1 Tablespoonful. Mixing: Put the sugar into the large bar glasses ; fill each 3 parts with ice, and then pour in the champagne* Ornament with the lemon; fix the straws and serve. Mock Champagne Cobbler. Lemonade, 1 Split. Elder Flower Water, 1 Tablespoonful. Orange „ „ 1 Dessertspoonful. Brandy, 1 Tablespoonful. Sugar or Syrup, 1 „ „ Ice and Orange Ring. Mixing: Put the sugar or syrup into the glass; then the orange flower and elder flower waters. Give it a good shaking round; add the brandy; fill up with the split lemon; fix the straws and serve with a ring of orange on the top. Claret Cobbler. Claret, 1 Glass; Dash of CloveSi Lemon, 2 Rings. Ice. Mixing: Put in the claret with a dash of clove cordial; ice decorate, and serve. The clove cordial will possibly make the cobbler sweet enough for gentlemen's taste. Ladies may probably prefer a little more sugar. Moselle Cobbler. Make as for champagne cobbler. As this is generally aAMERICAN DRINKS. 13 ^ lady's drink, decorate with pine apple or berried fruits. Sauterne, Hockheimer, Chablis, Burgundy, Bordeaux, and a variety of other wines too numerous to mention can all be converted into cobblers. Whiskey Cobbler Is made from 2 wineglasses (i of a pint) of rye or Bourbon whiskey. Irish and Scotch whiskies are not so favourable to the manufacture of the cobbler, at least so far as bar orders enlighten us as to patron's tastes. A spoonful of sugar is now added, and a lump of ice. This is to be well shaken. Fill the tumbler up with ice. Decorate with lemon. Fix the straws and hand to your thirsty customer. Brandy Straight Is a direct lineal descendant of the cobbler. Its manufac^ ture is decidedly straight, but not strait-laced. You take a small bar glass—the smaller the better for some customers,— you put a lump of ice in and hand the glass to the customer, who takes up the brandy decanter, and helps himself. You dispense the ice-water, he dispenses the fire-water and that makes a straight. When a man takes a Bender, Which is the opposite of a straight,—he waits till your back is turned, borrows the nearest empty large bar glass, slips the ice in out of the little glass, takes the brandy decanter, bends his arm at too great an angle; by mistake of course; the bottle can not stand it, and therefore empties out, half or all its contents into that bar glass in order that it may regain its equilibrium. By the way, this kind of customer frequently loses his balance, and instead of making straight for the door, bends about in the most willowy fashion, and it is from this132 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. it derives the name of a bender, in opposition to straight," moderation. Gin, whiskey, rum, shrub, essences, all make straights, and are very popular, especially at the dime and free lunch bars. The American Fiz Is drank while effervescing Whiskey, 1 Wineglass. Lemon Juice, 1 Teaspoonful. Syrup, 1 „ Ice. Mixing: Half fill the glass with shaved ice, after adding the above ingredients. Toss it round briskly for a few minutes to mix the ingredients, then drain it into a large bar glass, and fill up with soda or seltzer water from the syphon or fountain. Brandy Fi^z. Peach Brandy, 1 Teaspoonful. Cognac, 1 Glass. Syrup, 1 Dessertspoonful. Ice, Shaved. Mixing: Put the syrup and brandy into a small bar glass, half fill up with ice; shake it well round to mix it; then strain into a large bar glass; add the peach brandy; fill up with soda from the syphon or fountain, or use a split. Drink whilst foaming. Claret Fiz. Claret, 1 Glass. Lemonade, 1 Bottle. Ice. Mixing: Put the claret into a small tumbler; half fill withAMERICAN DRINKS. ice; shake it round for a couple of seconds; then strain it into a large bar glass; fill up with lemonade and quaff whilst it boils. Is fizzing stuff, only I should be glad if our caterers would agree what it is to be perpetually named. One barkeeper calls it John Collins—another Tom Collins. There are also Harry and Fred, all members of the same family. I prefer to call m'ine the Or, Almond Essence and Orange Essence, 2 Drops each. I Mixing: Put the syrup, whiskey, and lemon juice into a small bar glass ; half fill with ice, and give it a vigorous shaking to mix the materials, and ice them well. Strain into a large bar-glass, flavour with Curacoa, or almond, and orange essence ; pour into the lemonade, and drink while lively to the health of the Collins family—whose name you may take in vain for about fifty popular drinks—from brandy, rum, bourbon, old rye, gin, &c., &c. The Celebrated Collins Drink Fred Collins Fiz. Whiskey, Syrup, Lemon, Lemonade, Shaved Ice, Curacoa, 1 Large Wine glass. 1 Dessert Spoonful. 1. 1 Split. J Glass. 1 Teaspoonful. Stonewall Jackson. Good Old Rye Whiskey, Lump Ice, Sweet Cider, 1 Glass. i Bottle.134 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. Mixing: Put the whiskey into a large bar-glass, put in 2 or 3 lumps of ice, fill up with sweet Hereford, Devonshire, or Jersey apple cider. A Stonewall. Brandy, 1 Pony glass. Fine Ice, \ do. Soda Water, 1 Split. Mixing: Mix in the order above shown, and hand to your customer in large bar glass. The Prairie Oyster. Syrup, 1 Wine glass. Yolk of an Egg. Old Rye Whiskey, 1 Wine glass. Mix in the order above shown, taking care not to break the yolk of the egg. Sangarees Can be made from wines, spirits, and ales, but port wine is the ruling spirit. Brandy Sangaree. Brandy, 1 Wine glass. Syrup, 1 do. Ice, 2-3rds. of a Tumbler. Port Wine. i Glass. Mixing: Mix the brandy, the syrup, and the ice thoroughly by shaking—then add the port wine in such a way that it will svyim on the top.Syrup, Gin, Ice, Port Wine, Gin Sangaree. COCKTAILS. 1 Wine glass, 1 do. 2-3rds. of a Tumbler. i Glass, 135 Mix as for above. Syrup, Ale, Ice, Nutmeg, Port Wine, Ale Sangaree, 1 Table spoonful, f Tumbler. 1 Grate. 1 Dash. Put in the syrup and mix with the ale—add the ice, and serve with or without the nutmeg and port wine, according to the taste of the customer. Ice, Nutmeg, Mix the port wine and sugar. Fill the tumbler 3 parts full of ice, shake it together, grate nutmeg on the top and serve. Sherry Sangaree. Ingredients same as above, using sherry instead of port wine. Mixing the same. For those who can aiford them, the best cocktails in the English Market, are those compounded by our young friends Port Wine Sangaree. Port Wine, Sugar, or Syrup, 2 Glasses, 1 Teaspoonful. COCKTAILS.136 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. in Bond Street, Messrs. Yeatman, and sold under the name of Calisayine bitters, and cocktails. I append a few receipts for those who prefer to make them at home. Bourbon Cocktail for Bottling. Bourbon Whiskey, 1 Gallon, (see page 43.) Syrup, 2 Quarts, (see page 87.) Tincture of Buchu Leaves, 3 Drams. do. Seville Oranges, 2 ozs. do. Lemon, 2 ozs. do. Gentian, 1 oz. do. Dandelion, 1 oz. Tinctures of Cardamums, and Coriander, \ oz. each. Mixing, Blend all the ingredients thoroughly together. Colour with solferino, or turmeric colouring. Strain and bottle. Gin Cocktail for Bottling, Gin, 2 Gallons. Syrup, i Gallon. Tincture of Cardamums, 1 oz. do. Coriander, 1 oz. do. Gentian, 1 oz. do. Quassia, 1 oz. do. Lemon, 1 oz. Add the tinctures to a quart of the spirit. Colour with caramel and saffron or with solferino, add to the syrup and to the rest of the spirit. Filter and bottle.COCKTAILS. Brandy Cocktail for Bottling. Pale Cognac Brandy, 2 Gallons. Tincture of Cinnamon, 1 Fluid oz. do. Blood Orange Peel, 1 do. Lemon Peel, 1 do. Cloves, 1 „ do. Allspice, 1 „ do. Tansy Leaves, 1 „ Curacoa, i Pint. Thin Syrup, li Gallons. Mixing, Mix the tinctures well together with the brandy. Then add the curacoa and the thin syrup. Mix well with the brush agitator, bottle, cork and seal. To Serve. Half fill a bar glass with shaved ice, and add a wine glass of the cocktail. Rub the rim of a clean glass round with lemon peel—throw in a piece heart shaped; strain the cocktail on to it, with 3 drops of lemon juice, and serve. Champagne Cocktail. Essence of Lemon, 2 Drops. do. Orange, 2 „ do. Gentian, 2 „ Orange Flower Water, 1 Tablespoonful. Syrup, 1 „ Champagne, (Sec.) \ Pint. Shaved Ice. Mixing, Half fill a bar-glass with shaved ice, then add the essences, the orange flower water, and the syrup, shake well up in the ice, then pour in the dry champagne and serve,138 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC, Jersey Cocktail, Essence of Lemon, 2 Drops, do. Gentian, 2 „ do. Dandelion, 1 TablespoonfuU Jersey Champagne Apple Cider, 1 Bottle. Shaved Ice. Mixing, Put the ice into a large bar-glass, about half full. Thoroughly mix in the essences. Pour in the cham- pagne cider, and serve. Rye Cocktail. Rye Whiskey, 2 Gallons. (See page 44.) Tincture of Bitter Oranges, 1 oz. do. Lemon, i oz. do. Coriander, \ oz. do. Cardamum, J oz. do. Gentian, J oz. do. Turkey Rhubarb, 25 Drops. Best Store Syrup, 3 Gallons. Tincture of Chillies, J Pint. Mixing. Take 1 pint of the whiskey, mix the tinctures in it, then return it to the 2 gallons of rye, rummage well, then add the store syrup and work it well in. Cork and bottle. Terry Velvet Was a drink our American Cousins introduced in honour of Miss Ellen Terry. Put in the bottom of a punch bowl, 2 sprays of lemon verbena, (about 14 leaves) and 4 square inches of lemon peel finely cut, 2J oz. of crushed lump sugar, let these soak in three quarters of a pint of fine dryCRUSTAS, FIXES, AND SOURS. 139 sherry for two hours. To serve—strain the sherry into a bowl,—add a bottle of fine dry champagne, about 1 pint of crushed ice, serve at once with punch ladle, straws and a sprig of verbena in each glass. Crustas, Fixes and Sours. These drinks are served in green or red hock glasses, and next to the julep, they are the prettiest (from an artistic point of view) drinks sold at the bar. You first mix your ingredients in a small tumbler, or rummer—and when they are quite ready, you stand the glass in ice, whilst you pare a lemon, and chat to the customer. You cut it precisely the same way as you would an apple, round and round in one piece, with as little of the white pith as possible. Measure round the glass with the lemon, and cut off sufficient to line the inside. The whole glass is not lined, only a rim of lemon placed inside. Having measured the glass lay the lemon on one side. Rub the edges of the glass, inside and out with a cut lemon. Dip it in pearl sugar, and it looks like fine hoar frost on the red or green glass. Now put in the lemon rind, fixing it so that the drinker will have no trouble, i. e, lower at the side where the lemon rind joins —so that the liquid will come clearly from the glass into the mouth. A VERY good mixture for a Crusta Is as follows:— Eau D'Or, 1 Small Glass. Calysaine Bitters, J Teaspoonful. Brandy, 1 Liqueur Glass. Shaved Ice. Mix these together in a small bar tumbler; stand on theI40 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. ice till your crusta glass is fixed and draped; then strain into it from the tumbler. Brandy Crusta, Gin crusta, Bourbon crusta, &c.; can all be made by fol- lowing the receipt above given. Rye Whiskey Fix. Rye Whiskey, 1 Wineglass. Syrup, 1 Dessertspoonful. Shaved Ice and Lemon. Peel rind sufficient to fix round the glass. Mix your ingre- dients and serve. Gin Fix. The same as the above, using gin instead of rye whiskey. Bourbon Sour. Lemon Juice, i Glass. Bourbon Whiskey, 1 „ Syrup, 1 Teaspoonful. Lemon Peel to line Glass. Shaved Ice. Line the glass with the peel; add the ingredients, the ice last, and serve. Santa Cruz rum, gin, and other sours are made as above, and named after the spirits or cordials they contain.THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. 141 HOT DRINKS. Irish Whiskey Punch. The materials are Whiskey, Boiling Water, "Glorious*' Sugar, Lemon, 3 Lumps. 1 Ring. 1 Glass. Glasses. Mixing: Pour into a heated rummer the boiling water required for the mixture, on to the sugar which should be lying peacefully at the bottom of the tumbler, then add the "crature/' a ring of lemon, and the punch is made. Warm a large toddy glass, put in the sugar; the hot water about two wineglassesful, not more, rather under than over; add the whiskey; stir in the honey; float the lemon; warm two small spirit glasses ; fill one for the lady at your right hand, drink out of the other yourself. It is not considered comme il faut in Scotland to drink out of the rummers or toddy glasses unless at bachelor parties, and hardly then if strict etiquette is observed. The Ben Nevis Punch. The Dew off Ben NevisWhiskey, 2 Glasses. Sugar, 3 Lumps. Lemon, 1 Ring, Honey, 2 Teaspoonfuls. Boiling Water. ad. lib. Apple Toddy. Old Cognac, Sugar, Baked Siberian Crabs, or 1 Glass. 3 Lumps. Small Sour Apples, Boiling Water, 2 or 3. ad. lib.142 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. Heat the rummer; put in the sugar and water; then the spirit; mix it together; then float the roasted apple on the top. A dash of apple cider is a great improvement. Serve with sippet of toasted spongecake or rusk fingers. This is a very appropriate Christmas drink and reminds me of its origin. Warm the beer, sugar, and spices together, adding a little grated ginger. Beat up a couple of eggs in a basin. They must be well mixed. When the sugar has dissolved and the beer is thoroughly hot, not boiling, pour it into a jug, and from the jug, rapidly into the basin with the eggs, from the eggs back again into the jug as quickly as possible, to and fro, to and fro—till a thick froth is raised. Then serve in small rummers. The ingredients vary slightly in different parts of the country, but I give a general receipt which can be improved upon no doubt, by intelligent members of our profession. Lamb's Wool. Beer, Sugar, 1 Quart. 2 ozs. 1 Inch. 6 2 Cinnamon, Cloves, Eggs, Ginger. The Wassail Bowl. Nut Brown Ale, Sugar, Mixed Spices, Lemon Rings Cloves, Roasted Crabs, or Sour 3 Pints, i lb. 1 Teaspoonful. 3 6 Apples, Cider, 7 1 Pint.HOT DRINKS. Put the beer, cider, sugar, and cloves, into a large enamelled or preserving pan. Stir until the sugar dissolves and it becomes right hot. Then have the roasted apples ready, lay them in the bottom of the wassail bowl; dust the spices over; pour in the hot mixture; float on the rings of lemon ; decorate the bowl with flowers or holly wreath, and sing All hail! wassail! good ale!" This is the drink the farmers in the ** west countrie," carry round their apple trees on Twelfth Night, so that they may have a good crop of apples for the cider making next year. The wassail bowl is I believe, often filled with hot spiced cider instead of the above mixture. Egg Flip. Boiling Water, 1 Glass. Eggs, 2 Lump Sugar, 2 ozs. Brandy, 1 Glass. Ale, 1 Quart. Beat up the eggs; put the ale on the fire; put the sugar into a jug; add the boiling water and brandy; pour the hot ale to the brandy and sugar; then pour it on to the eggs, and backwards and forwards as rapidly as possible till it is as smooth as silk. Serve in pony glasses* Rum Flipi Ale, 1 Quart. Porter Spice, 1 Teaspoonful (see page 34.) Jamaica Rum, 2 Glasses. Eggs, 3 Sugar, 2 ozs. Beat up the rum and the eggs together, and put them into a jug. Put the ale and sugar on the fire, and as it begins to144 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. rise in the pan, pour it into another jug; add the porter spice. Pour rapidly from one jug to the other for five minutes, until it is perfectly smooth. Then serve in small rummers or bar glasses. Scotch Whiskey Skin, Glenlivet Whiskey, 1 Glass. Lemon Peel, 1 sq. in. Boiling Water, ^ Tumblerful. Put the boiling water in the tumbler first, then the lemon peel, then the whiskey. Boston Skin. Rye Whiskey, 1 Large Glass. Lemon Peel, 1 sq. in. Boiling Water, j- Tumblerful. Put the boiling water in the tumbler first, then the lemon peel, and then the whiskey. Bourbon Skin. Bourbon Whiskey, Lemon Rind, Boiling Water, Mix as above for Boston Skin, &c Ladies' Skin. Liqueur D'Amour, 1 Glass (see page 62.) Lemon Peel, 1 sq. in. Boiling Water, J Tumblerful. Mix as above for Bourbon Skin. 1 Glass. 1 sq. in. i Tumblerful.HOT DRINKS. Jockey Skin. Peach Brandy, Lemon Peel, Boiling Water, Mix as above. 1 Glass. 1 sq. in. i Tumblerful. Scotch Rum Brose. Rum, Coarse Scotch Oatmeal, Honey, Butter, Boiling Water, Mix the butter and the oatmeal together; pour the boiling water into a large rummer, stir in the honey, add the oat- meal, then the rum. Ladle out into small glasses and serve. 2 Glasses. 1 Tablespoonful. 1 Dessertspoonful. i oz. ad. lib. Rum Shrub Hot. Rum Shrub, Boiling Water, Mix and serve. 1 Glass. 1 Glass. Mulled Wine. Red Wine, Water, Cloves. Sugar, Ground Spice, or use Porter Spice instead of Cloves, &c. Place the wine and sugar at hand, and boil the cloves for a few minutes in the water; then add the sugar; pour in the J 1 Pint. i „ 6. 1 Tablespoonful. ^ Teaspoonful. J- „ (see page 34.)146 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. wine, and lift it off the fire. If the porter spice is to be used instead of the other, pour it in now. Serve the wine in a claret jug. Some add a glass of brandy, but that only destroys the true flavour of the wine and makes the drink hot and fiery. Mulled Wine with Eggs. Wine, White or Red, 1 Bottle. Porter Spice, J Teaspoonful. Eggs, 3. Beat the eggs in a bowl with 2 tablespoonfuls of sugar. Warm the wine over the fire in a muller; when it is hot but not boiling, add porter spice. Pour this on to the eggs and beat with a switch whisk the whole time. Mulled Claret. Claret, 1 Bottle. Lemon, 1. Lump Sugar, 2 oz. Sherry, 1 Glass. Porter Spice, J Teaspoonful. Peel the lemon, add the sugar, putting both in a muller, add the sherry, then the bottle of claret. Stir until the sugar is dissolved. Let it become quite hot. Serve in a claret jug- A Bowl of Bishop. No. i. Orange, 1. Claret, 1 Bottle. Loaf Sugar, i lb. Cloves. Cut an orange in slices, stick the first slice full of cloves on the outside, (say 12) sprinkle sugar between the slices ofHOT DRINKS. 147 orange, and put them together. Put the orange before the fire, and roast it, do not let it burn. Warm the wine in a muller with the sugar, pour it over the orange and serve. For a large quantity, roast half a dozen bitter oranges, putting 12 cloves in each, place them in a punch bowl. Dissolve the sugar in the claret over the fire,—cut the oranges in two, pour the nearly boiling mixture over them. Cover them down tight. Leave them for 4 hours. Then pass it all through a seive, squeeze out the orange juice with a silver spoon. Warm up again in a muller, and serve. Another Bishop. No. 2. Bay Rum, 1 Tablespoonful. Claret, 1 Bottle. Roast Lemons, 2. Sugar, i lb. Slice the lemons and roast, continuing the receipt as above in No. I, Adding the bay rum after the claret has been put into the bowl for serving. The bay rum perfumes not only the bowl, but the whole house. Rum Fustian. Yolks of Eggs, 6. Old Tom Ale, 1 Quart. Gin, 1 Pint. Sherry, 1 Bottle. Cinnamon, 2 Inches. Lump Sugar, i lb. Porter Spice, i Teaspoonful. Lemon, I. I Put the wine on in a muller with the sugar, cinnamon, and lemon peel. Let the sherry become quite hot, and the sugar dissolved. Mix the gin with the eggs, add the beer by i148 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. degrees. Whisk with a switch wisk, and pour in the hot sherry, add the porter spice, and serve. Beat the yolk of the egg—add some porter spice, then stir in the rum—Melt the sugar in a cup with boiling water, about a tablespoonful will be enough,—Add this to the rum and eggs, whisking all the time. Strain it into a hot glass. Have the white of egg whipped to a foam, slip this on to the top of the glass. Serve with a spoon to stir it up as quickly as possible after the foam is added. Take gin in place of rum as above, follow the working through as for grandfather's nightcap. What a very shocking name!! but still more shocking— there are very few English barmen who are able to manip- ulate this compound; for the very simple reason, they are supplied by their chiefs with spirits of a very low calibre. It is impossible to make *'Blue Blazers" with spirits 40^ to 60° u. p,^ and swearing at the bar-man, and calling him a duffer, because he cannot metaphorically speaking, " Make a silk purse out of a sow's ear," does not mend the matter. Grandfather's Nightcap. Old Rum, Yolk of Egg, Honey, Porter Spice, White of Egg, Sugar, Hot Water, Lemon, 1 Gill. 1. 1 Dessertspoonful. J Teaspoonful. 1. 1 oz. 1 Slice. Grandmother's Nightcap. Blue Blazers.149 HOT DRINKS. To make Blue Blazers you must have a bottle of proof spirit on the premises, where it can be got at by the bar- man. The general ingredient is whiskey—rye whiskey if you can get it. Silver tankards must be used for this drink on account of the intense heat. The novice, amateur, or beginner, therefore must not attempt to make it in glasses, China mugs, or pewters. Mixing. Into one tankard put a gill of good **old rye," into the other three lumps of sugar, a squeeze of lemon, and a gill of boiling water, not hot or warm mind. Set fire to the whiskey, and as soon as it is well alight pour it rapidly from one tankard to the other, making a stream of fire between the two mugs. It is as well to practise this, using hot water, so that the steam may in some measure guide you. When you have passed it once or twice from one tankard to the other, hand it to the customer. It is not nearly such a strong drink as some of the Petits Verres, Skins, and Smashes, made with the ordinary u, p, spirit, as much of the alcohol is consumed by the fire. This drink is valuable from a medicinal point of view, and is often used in the first stages of Yellow Jack, Cholera, and Dysentry, as a check to the disease. Brandy and Peach Blazers. Put into a silver tankard, a couple of slices of brandy- peaches, (See page 69) add a glass of cognac, set it on fire. Stir it up, and hand it to the customer, with another mug containing hot water and sugar. Other drinks of a similar character will readily suggest themselves, should occasion arise. HONEY DRINKS. Very smooth nice drinks are made from honey prepara- tions. We do not enquire too closely in the trade as to150 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. whether the honey is the product of the little busy bee, or whether it be the work of big " Factory bees," /. e. men who prepare glucose, and make it ready to put in the honey- combs made of paraffin wax, stearine, mutton fat; cheap wax; gums, &c., at the other end of the factory,—where in a year, hundreds and thousands of lovely jars, miniature bee hives, little glass cases containing exactly 1 lb. of honey in the comb. Large gallon and 2 gallon jars of honey for our business, that never saw a bee—and the only approach to winged creatures, that came near those "honey" jars, &c., were mosquitoes, flies, and stray specimens of the hornet and wasp tribe; unless indeed, as I have found out in some cases, the manufacturers introduce one or two dead bees into the combs, so as to strengthen the illusion. Of course pure honey can be obtained, and when it is it ought to be appreciated. Peach Honey. Take 1 lb. of honey, put it into an earthenware jam jar, that will hold about 2 lbs.; add to it J oz. of peach essence; stand it in hot water until the honey is perfectly clear; then add J a pint of pale brandy. To use. Peach Honey Nectar. A TABLESPOONFUL of peach honey; put it into a small bar glass; add 2 tablespoonfuls of boiling water. Serve with a spoon for mixing. Peach Honey Delight. A Favourite drink for ladies. Take a tablespoonful of peach honey; add half a glass of cognac, or lime juice syrup. Mix well. Then add a split lemon, a lump of ice and serve.HONEY DRINKS AND NECTARS. I5T Clove Honey; Pine Apple Honey; Horehound Honey; Ginger Honey; Raspberry; Straw- berry ; Currant; or Lemon Are made by adding i oz. of any of these tinctures or essen- ces to 1 lb. of honey, which must be prepared by standing the jam jar containing it in boiling water or a Bain Marie^'' until it is quite a thin syrup ; then add \ pint of spirits. Gin or white brandy. Or, \ pint of shrub and \ pint of spirit may be used. (See page 125.) NECTARS. Jersey Honey Nectar. Take 1 tablespoonful of lemon honey ; 1 small wineglass- ful of apple brandy (see page 74;) heat J a pint of sweet apple cider; pour on to the honey mixture; stir up, and you will quaff one of the most delicious beverages Paterson city ever produced on a winter's night. A Summer Nectar From apple brandy, is made with the above compounds, and instead of heating the cider, adding shaved ice. Little Darling Is made from a spoonful of Pine Apple Honey, a glass of cognoc, and a split soda. Father's Pet Is a concoction of Lemon Honey; small glass of old rye whiskey, and \ a split soda, or a wine glass of soda from the syphon. Mother's Joy Is Clove Honey; a good stiff glass of old gin, and as little soda water as you can possibly introduce to give it a cream without being considered mean.152 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. Bob's Tipple. Good lad, he never touches spirits,'* says his mother, but she should see him at the bar when he calls for his Tipple. Take two tablespoonfuls of Ginger Honey ; \ pint of sherry; mix well; add a split lemon ; a dash of cognac on the top, and hand it to the good little boy. He will then tell his maternal relative how good honey and split lemon taste. Horehound Honey Preparations are very favourite drinks in the Northern States. There is always an excuse for drinking on cold and wet days, when you can find a bar where they sell the Count Gort-Sichako£f" Mixture, which is prepared thus:— A tablespoonful of horehound honey; a glass of old Jamaica rum ; a dash of lemon juice, and boiling water to taste, or without if the customer is a "fire drinker.'' In the second class bars, molasses take the place of honey—but it is not prepared before using. Shaver Town Tipple Is made with a tablespoonful of molasses; thin it with a little boiling water; throw in a glass of corn whiskey; a ring of lemon ; stir up, and there you have it,—hot, sweet, and strong. Dead Man's Gulch Reviver. This was at one time used in a very rough mining district, of the above name, and is now found at most bars. Take a tablespoonful of molasses; a spray of tansy or wormwood. Pour the boiling water on the two, and stir them up. ThrowEFFERVESCING DRINKS. in a couple of glasses of corn whiskey, and serve. Maple molasses is generally used for the above. Dick's Sweetheart. A SPOONFUL of Raspberry Honey; a glass of sherry— Marsala or any^light wine. Fill up with shaved ice. Polly's Delight. Lemon honey, one tablespoonful; a glass of port wine; mix well; drop in a Raspberry Cream Ice, and serve. Cherry Jack. A SPOONFUL of lemon honey; a wineglass of cherry shrub, or cherry cordial; a dash of cognac, or old rye; fill up the tumbler with shaved ice, and serve with straws. Effervescing Drinks. I. Of course these can be readily made where one is well supplied with bottled aerated waters and gallon syphons ; but there is another class very well known in the trade, and vv'hich I would like to see more popular in this country. Your first preparation must be the acid waters, and they can be prepared by putting J lb. of tartaric acid into every gallon of water or syrup that you intend to use for the effervescing drinks. Dissolve the tartaric acid in the liquid and put it into a china sherry or port jar, or a glass liqueur jar. The acid does not destroy the colour of the syrups, but rather heightens them. Now prepare a similar quantity of water, plain boiled or distilled, which ever you like; add to it I lb. of carbonate of soda to each gallon. To serve; pour half a tumblerful of the carbonate of soda water first. Then draw in a dean wineglass whatever acid syrup you intend using. Put in a lump of ice to the soda water (if ice is used); give it- a154 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. shake round; pour in the acid syrup and hand to the customer. II. Another and Rougher Method, which I do not at all advocate, is to have the acid syrup prepared as above, and well watered thus—1 gallon we will say of cherry syrup, 1 gallon of boiled water, and \ lb. of acid mixed in to the boiling water. When it is cold, add it to the cherry syrup, and put it into tap jars for use. Have a round bowl on the counter, and a number of clean spoons beside it. You draw the syrup into the bar-glass, 3 parts filling it, you then step up to the counter, take a spoon, half fill it with carbonate of soda. Stir it round in the acid, syrup, and water, in the glass, and hand it to the customer. This is what you would call a semi-lazy way of doing the business, especially when you see the bar-tender pop the wet spoon back into the carbonate of soda. ** It makes you feel a kind 'er riled.'* III. Another and Tidier Method often pursued, but which requires more room for stock—is to boil one gallon of water, and dissolve \ lb. of citric acid crystals in it. Let it get quite cold, and put it into a jar with tap for use. N. B. Let me try to impress on the caterer the superiority of boxwood, or even common wooden taps over brass, or metal for drawing these acids; Glass and porcelain taps have re- cently been introduced, they are very good. I believe verdi- gris forms in less than an hour when acid is in contact with a brass tap. The soda water can be made by dis- solving the soda (i lb. to the gallon) in cold or boiling water, and placing it in another barrel. Sometimes and especially for a quick sale, the citric crystals, or tartaric acid, are dissolved in a pint of boiling water, and added to a gallon, less the pint of cold water, and sometimes powder- ed tartaric acid is dissolved in cold water. The modusAERATED WATERS. Operandi in these cases is to take a spoonful of white sugar— put it into a tumbler, draw first \ a tumbler of soda water, dissolve the sugar in this. From bottles, add—either, currant, raspberry, bilberry, lemon, strawberry, or any other syrup, shrub, essence or extract that may be required. Some vendors drop a liquid preparation of "Crimson salts'* or cochineal to colour the drink before serving it out, especially when they are using raw lime juice, or strawberry cordial, which is generally pale in colour. The more correct method is to sweeten and colour the acid water. Now draw sufficient of the acid liquid into the tumbler to cause effer- vescence. An Effervescing Fountain Has been introduced for small bars and restaurants. The makers claim that by its use the manufacturer can produce ginger beers, soda waters and lemonades at Id. a dozen ex- clusive of bottles. I have seen it in operation at one of our Brewery Exhibitions, some few years ago, but had not time then to stop and investigate it. For Making Aerated Waters and Fruit Champagnes Many machines are in the market, varying in price from a few pounds, to several hundreds. In a large catering es- tablishment supplying branch houses, it pays as well if not abetter than beer brewing, to manufacture your own aerated waters ; and many large firms throughout the country are doing this—Trade lists and catalogues can easily be had on application to any of the firms advertising in the British and Foreign Confectioner Magazine of 182, Strand, London. W. C.156 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. New Mown Hay. Orange (acid) Cordial, J Wineglass. Strawberry do. i ,, Jargonelle do. J ,, Total. 1 Wineglass. Take a lemonade glass (large bar) J fill it with carbonate water. Put in a lump of ice—throw in the wineglassful of the mixed cordials, and hand quickly to the customer, who drinks while it is effervescing. The Pride of New Jersey. Orange Flower Water, 1 Tablespoonful. Carbonate Water, 4 Bar-glass. Mix these in the bar-glass, and draw in a wineglass the following; — Acid Lemon Cordial, J Wineglass, do. Raspberry Syrup, J ,, do. Clove do. i ,, Total. 1 Win 62:1 ass. Mix and hand at once to the customer. The Good Templar's Delight. Acid Red Currant Shrub, or Cordial, (made without spirit.) J Wineglass. Acid Lime Juice Cordial, (made without spirit,) J Wineglass. Total, 1 Wineglass. Draw into a large bar-glass sufficient carbonate water toAERATED WATERS. 157 half fill it. Put the glass towards the customer. Pop in a cream ice, or lemon water ice. Pour in the mixed acid cordial like lightning, and let him imbibe. Moses and Aaron. Put in a large bar-glass a liqueur glass full of tansy gin, and a dash of bitters, to make about two teaspoonfuls altogether. Half fill the tumbler with soda water. Put in a glass of acid pine apple. Serve whilst foaming. N. B. This is a good Pick-me-up." A Good Sherbet Is made from J lb. of carbonate of soda, 6 oz. of tartaric acid, 1 lb. of powdered loaf sugar, J oz, of essence of lemon. Sprinkle the essence on the sugar whilst in the lump, then pound in a marble mortar, and when quite dry, add it to the powders, sifting them together through a fine wire sieve. When quite dry, bottle. 1 drop of oil of musk, or amber- gris, dropped in the bottom of the bottle, will perfume the whole, and make an elegant preparation. Essence of cachou, dropped on the sugar together with the lemon, say 10 drops to the lb., make the American drink known as **The Fay of the Woods." Fay of the Woods Champagne. Put into a bar-glass, a liqueur glass full of brandy. Half fill with clear syrup, and stir in 1 teaspoonful of the Fay of the Woods Powder as above, and you will have a cheap and exquisite thirst quencher. Wood Nymph's Cup. Pour in the bottom of a large barglass, 1 glass of noyeau. Fill up with water—add a teaspoonful of the Fay of the Woods Powder, and serve.158 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. In Making Sherbets and Kali, You can base them all on nearly the same pattern. Every maker has his or her pet receipt, which is of course superior to everybody else's; and let every man who is com- pounding, use that best of all receipts, **The one he thinks the best/' And according to the flavours used, so you name them. Lemonade Powder, A Still Is made by dropping J oz. essence of lemon on to one and a half pounds of loaf sugar. Grind the sugar in a mortar with 1 oz. of critric acid crystals. When thoroughly ground, sift together and bottle for use. One teaspoonful to a glass of water makes an agreeable beverage. Lemonade, another Non-Effervescing Is prepared by rubbing 1 lb. of lump sugar on 6 oranges; pound it in a mortar; sift it and spread it on a paper to dry; then mix with 2 ozs. of cream of tartar. When the sugar is dry, add it. Bottle and use 1 teaspoonful or more at plea- sure to the glass of water. A Very Cooling Summer Drink Is made with Lemons, 3 Coarse Sugar, IJ lbs. Cream of Tartar, J lb. Water, 5 Quarts. Mixing: Peel the rind of the lemons very thinly; cut the insides into thin rings ; put them into a gallon jar with the i lb. of cream of tartar. Boil the 5 quarts of water and sugar till it is reduced to a gallon; skim it carefully, and when finished, pour it on to the contents of the jar. Put theSPRUCE DRINKS. 159 jar into a cool place, and when the liquor is cold it is ready for use. A Very Clear Ginger Drink May be made for family use by adding to the above i oz. of essence of ginger. This is very suitable as a temperance drink during the winter time. SPRUCE DRINKS. Spruce Beers. Another style of drinks are those made from spruce. There are many methods and styles of manipulating the spruce and of manufacturing spruce beer. I will herewith give a selection of the various modes which I have met with in different English and American houses, and for the pur- pose will quote a portion of my article in the British and Foreign Confectioner, of May, 1885. ** There is no liquid manufactured that has more genuine healing qualities, or is of more virtue as a sanitary agent for the correction of internal disorders than spruce—black—or Dantzic beer as it is variously called. In the Northern and Midland counties, it is a popular medium, observe, I do not say drink; it takes the place of the Londoners' clove and peppermint, the coffee of the southern counties, and the bitters of the un-commercial gentleman who keeps late hours, and requires a morning pick me up," just to steady his nerves. Yes, black beer is a medium for rum— and in that form, weighted by a heavy liquor, is not at its best, especially if that rum is of home manufacture—vous savez. But the beer properly made and used as in the Ameri- can bars is exquisite, and can be made a feature of. Therel60 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. are two methods, one with molasses, the other with a caramel and liquorice foundation for small quantities. In buying the molasses, be careful where you get it from. The cheapest kinds are from sawdust, beetroot, potato, and other refuse, by the action of sulphuric acid. It is needless to tell the honest dealer that the syrup or molasses from such sources is altogether bad, no matter how often the grocer next door may praise his last consignment of horrid stuff. The cane, maple, and sugar grass molasses, although not so nice look- ing, is the best for the purpose, and should be ordered from sugar factories of good repute. These hints apply to porter as well as spruce." Spruce Beer. No. i. For every gallon of spruce that you intend to make, take 1 gallon of water, to 2 lbs. of treacle, and 2 tablespoonfuls of extra strong essence of spruce. Boil the water and treacle together, and then empty into a fermenting tub. Ferment with yeast. When the fermentation is subsiding, skim off the head; strain into a barrel or jar; add the spruce essence or extract. (It is bought under either name.) Bung up the barrel with cotton wool for a few days, then bung down and use. If not dark enough "tone down" with caramel. Spruce Beer. No. 2. Make 2 gallons of molasses syrup, by stirring IJ- lbs. to 2 lbs. of molasses in boiling water. I cannot give a definite quantity as molasses vary greatly in density or thickness. The thicker and darker it is the better for this purpose. Then stir into the syrup sufficient spruce extract to flavour it. It is then ready for sale. Spruce Beer. No. 3. Take in the proportions of 1 gallon of water to J a pintSPRUCE DRINKS. i6t of spruce buds, i. e., the buds of the spruce-fir, allowing IJ lbs. of treacle to 2 lbs. per gallon. Boil the water and the spruce buds for 1 hour; say you have a gallon of water and the required quantity of spruce buds, you must allow another -I gallon of water for evaporation, in other words the spruce buds are put on to boil in IJ gallons of cold water and boiled till reduced to 1 gallon. When it has reached this stage, strain it off on to the treacle which should be in the ferment- ing tub; ferment with yeast, then strain and bottle. Another and to my mind a far more scientific method of using the spruce buds is to make- Spruce Beer a la Markham. No. 4. This is an American recipe. Mr. Markham being a con- siderable manufacturer of spruce, which he supplies to hotels, bars, and private families. His method is to take the spruce buds when in season, a quart measure pressed down, and pour on them a gallon of '*corn" spirit, that is spirit of Indian corn, (maize) rice, barley, or oats, in contra- distinction to spirits made from the maple, sugar cane, beet- root, potato-sugar, grasses, &c.; also 1 pint of distilled or soft water. This is infused for about a fortnight or three weeks, violently agitated 2 or 3 times a day by ''rockers" hung up for the purpose. The liqueur is then drawn off; the buds are rocked in water for 3 days, to extract any spirit that may have been left and is extractable. Mix the two infusions and cask or bottle in large jars for future use. The buds are then taken out and dried. They are used for fire-lighting in the manager's house. Then follows the process of brewing a good dark treacle beer, in which high-dried rye corn malt is used as a flavourer. 1 quart of malt is ground down and boiled with every 3 gallons of treacle wort; a spatula is used the whole time, stirring the treacle from the sides and bottom K162 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. of the copper whilst the wort is boiling, so that it shall not burn. It is then strained, fermented, skimmed, strained again and put into the barrel with 1 pint of spruce infusion to each 3 gallons of beer. If the colour is not good enough, make some molasses caramel, by burning the molasses, and adding very little water to it; or in some cases a mixture of molasses and water boiled together, and added whilst hot to the caramel. Mock Spruce and Porter. No. 5. Since writing the previous receipts, I have come across and tested two samples ; one of spruce—the other of porter, —at least liquids sold under these names, The composition of the spruce appeared to be:—Boiling water, 1 gallon ; liquorice 1 lb.; the kind used was the commonest and coarsest liquorice sugar stick (Spanish juice) found in the market. When the liquorice was dissolved, the mixture was thickened with common treacle. This was sold as spruce beer. The very same stuff, with the treacle left out, and 1 fluid oz. to the gallon, of tincture of iron, was sold as reliable commercial porter at 3d. a pint. I leave the reader to guess my sensations, when I found out these tricks of the trade. A little carbonate of soda was put in the bottom of the tankard and when the porter (sic.) was drawn on to it, it frothed up with the most beautiful cauliflower head imaginable. I drank. Tableau! 1 Spruce Beer. No. 6. 2 GALLONS of boiling water, thickened with equal parts of glucose and treacle; 2 tablespoonfuls (1 fluid oz.) of strong essential essence of spruce, to each gallon of liquid produced. This gives a more delicate flavour than by using all treacle; if it is preferred it can be fermented in the usual way. Be-SPRUCE DRINKS. 163 fore adding the spruce essence, colour up with caramel made from sugar, not molasses. Avoid liquorice, and all coarse tasting substances. Spruce Ale. Make as for mock Burton (page 14), using 1 lb. of spruce buds in lieu of coriander seed. The liquor need not be so strong as the Burton, and is bottled off after the fining process. Aston House Spruce Was a drink I met with at Saratoga Springs, and compound- ed and invented by a former superintendent of one of the departments of the Aston House Hotel. Ingredients: Black Beer Lemon Water Ice, Rye Whiskey, Lemonade, 1 Wineglass. 1 Small. 1 Small Liqueur Glass. 1 Split. Mixing: Put in the black beer; mix with the rye whiskey; add the lemon water ice. Fill up with lemonade. Serve with straws. Saratoga Cure AIL Spruce Beer, 1 Wineglass. Bitters, 1 Dash. Cognac, 1 Wineglass. Soda, 1 Bottle. Mix these in the order indicated, and serve. t164 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. Pretty Mulatto Spruce. Spruce Beer, Rum, Bay Rum, Lemonade, 1 Wineglass. i Glass. 1 Bottle* Mix in above order* Here's your Ginger. Spruce, Ginger Cordial, Ginger Beer, 1 Wine glass. 1 1 Bottle. Mix in order of recipe, and serve your customer with above words, always remembering that a small lump of ice improves these spruce drinks in summer. Warm a rummer and put the sugar and lemon rings in, add the black beer—then hand the glass and a mixer with the hot water in a jug to the customer, who helps himself to the last ingredient. By the way it is safer to trust some of them with the water jug, than with the spirit decanters. Mix ^s above. If you take her in the summer, ice her Spruce Grog. Black Beer, Lemon, Sugar, Boiling Water, 2 Rings. 3 Lumps. Ad. Lib. 1 Wineglass. My Black Sweetheart. Black Beer, 1 Wineglass. Rum, 1 Glass. Pine Apple Cordial, 1 ,,165 SPRUCE DRINKS. well, and use lemonade. If in the winter, coddle her up with sugar and keep her in hot water. The General's Friend. Spruce Beer, 1 Glass. Old Tom Gin, 1 Wineglass. Cordial of Cloves, } „ Sugar, 2 Lumps. Hot Water, Ad. lib. Mix as above, drink and smack your lips, /. if it wont be considered rude. Boss o* the Shanty. Spruce Beer, 1 Glass. Bourbon Whiskey, 1 Glass. Curacoa, i »> Lemon Water Ice. Split Soda. Mix exactly in the order above tabulated hand it to Alfred, and it shall be (Selby,) appreciated. This was a favourite drink amongst actors, at their wine and supper parties, in the days when Salvini was holding forth in his own shanty. The St. Louis Oyster, quite a native. Spruce Beer, 1 Glass. Corn Whiskey, 1 „ Raw Egg, 1, Noyeau, ^ „ Take a small bar-glass, put in the spruce beer, and mix with the corn whiskey thoroughly. Break an egg and put in the yolk whole, or yolk and white if the customer wishes. Then gently pour over and round the egg the noyeau and serve.166 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. By the way, there is one more receipt for spruce beer, which I must not omit, and then I will close my remarks on the Heal of all the nations.*'—Spruce, The present receipt was given to me by an English Brewer, for a long time connected with a celebrated firm of brewers, in the Midland Counties. Boil a wort of water, 9 gallons, sugar 28 lbs. Stir the whole time till the sugar is dissolved, and reduce to 7 gallons. Then put into the mash tub 2 pints of spruce chips, cut from the centre of a spruce block. Pour the hot wort on this, cover it up, and let it infuse till it is cold; remove the chips, which can have been put in a long loose net, like a cabbage net, only much finer; then ferment with yeast, draw off—colour with very strong caramel, put into the cask, and it will be ready for drawing in about a month. Spruce Beer.HERB, GINGER AND OTHER BEERS. 167 HERB, GINGER AND OTHER BEERS. One of the great essentials for successful herb-beer making, is to have all the apparatus clean, as in the ordinary beer and porter brewing. The general method of cleansing the bottles and jars is to use a strong solution of soda, but if they are musty, and have been stored in cellarage of doubtful purity, I prefer the following treatment—viz., Boiling water, 1 gallon; soda, 1 lb.; chloride of lime, 1 oz; when the soda has dissolved and the chloride of lime is thoroughly mixed, fill the bottles and jars with the mixture in the above propor- tion. Let it lie 24 hours, rinse in clear water, and drain in the usual manner. Crimson Salts, For very foul bottles, is a splendid disinfectant; used in proportion of 1 dram to a gallon of water. Being non- poisonous it is very safe to use, and is largely employed in colouring pink goods, in place of the more variable cochineal. If you want to ripen the beer fast, put it into warm dry bottles, and keep it at a moderate temperature, for about 3 hours, after bottling, corking, and tying down; then put it into a cool cellar, or freeze. A tub with strong salt and water reaching half-way up the bottle is a good cooler. Ginger Beer. No. i. One of the most common receipts for Ginger Beer, is the following;—168 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. Water, Lump Sugar, Brown Ginger, Yeast, Cream of Tartar, 1 Gallon. li lbs. 1 oz. 1 oz. 2 ozs. Bruise the ginger, and cut it in slices. Put it into a pan with a gallon of water, and the sugar intended for making the beer. Boil it, and skim, then strain it into a clean vessel, such as a pan of earthenware, or enamel, in which the cream of tartar is placed. When nearly cold, mix down 1 oz. of German yeast, and stir in, thoroughly rousing it. Let this work from 6 to 8 hours, skim off the head very care- fully, bottle and tie down the corks. In 12 hours it will be fit for use. Ginger Beer. No. 2. Temperance Drink. Well mix all the ingredients with the exception of the carbonate of soda and citric acid. Use screw stoppered bottles, fill 3 parts full of the mixture, divide the carbonate of soda equally amongst the bottles. There will be about a dram to each. Divide the crystals into equal parts, after grinding in a mortar. The best way is to have the portion for the bottle on a tiny piece of paper, slip in the crystal with the left hand, and put the screw stopper in with the right, as rapidly as possible. The beer will be ready for drinking in about 6 hours. This beer is Clarified Syrup Thin, 2 Gallons. do. Lime Juice, Essence of Lemon, Tincture of Ginger, Carbonate of Soda, Citric Acid Crystals, 1 Quart, i oz. 1 oz. 2 ozs. 2 ozs.HERB, GINGER, AND OTHER BEERS. 169 made without fermentation, and is therefore more suitable for teetotallers. ? Ginger and Honey Beer. Honey, 1 lb. • Ginger, 2 ozs. Water, 3 Gallons. Sugar, 1 lb. Essence of Lemon, i oz. Yeast, IJ ozs. Bruise the ginger, cut it in slices, and boil it in the water with the sugar. Strain it off and mix the honey with it whilst hot, also the essence of lemon. When nearly cold ferment with the yeast for 24 hours. Skim off the head, strain and bottle. Agrimony and Balm Beer. Pick fresh herbs and wash them quite clean, if they are dusty or dirty. Agrimony, Balm Leaves, Root Ginger, Bruised Cloves, Water, Sugar, Yeast, i Pint, pressed down. 1 Handful. i oz. J oz. 1 Gallon, 1 lb. i oz. Boil the water and sugar together. Pour it on the herbs, &c., steep for 12 hours. Put in the yeast, and ferment for 6 hours. Then strain, bottle, and tie down.I70 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. Treacle Beer. Treacle, Water, Brown Ginger, Bruised Cloves, Yeast, J oz. i oz. i oz. 1 lb. 1 Gallon. Boil the water and treacle together with the spices, let it become nearly cold. Ferment with yeast for 6 or 7 hours, then strain and bottle. Boil the water and sugar together. Slice the lemons and put them with the nettles in the mash tub. Pour on the water boiling hot. Cover up the mash tub for 6 hours. Fer- ment with a cupful of brewers' yeast for 6 hours. Skim off the head carefully, then strain and bottle. Another method of fermenting, is to spread the yeast on toast. Nettle Beer. Nettle Tops, Water, Lemons, Sugar, Brewers' Yeast, 1 Quart. 1 Gallon. 2. 1 lb. 1 Cupful.171 DISTILLED "WATERS. DISTILLED WATERS. Elder Flower Water. Take 6 lbs. of bruised flowers, and infuse them for 24 hours in 1 gallon of water, then put it into the still and distil in the usual way, always remembering that the still should never be quite full and the fire never of such a strength as to cause it to boil too rapidly. The vapour should run out in a very small stream. Rose Water Is made in the same way as orange flower water, and using the same proportions. Jessamine and Clove Pink Waters Are made by taking lbs. of the flowers, to every pint of water; bruise them and infuse in water for 2 days, keeping them closely covered. Distil as before directed. For purposes of perfuming, these flowers are generally steeped in proof spirit, water is added and they are dis- tilled. The operation requires care, judgment and practice. Orange Flower Water. It will be necessary to have a long narrow necked still for the purpose of making orange flower, and other waters. The orange flowers must be picked fresh from the trees. I like a proportion of the leaves in as well, thus we will say you have 1 lb. of orange flower petals, add to them J lb. of the green leaves of the orange plant. You will require to that 2 pints of water. Steep for 24 hours after bruising, or grinding the flowers in a mortar. Put them into your still, and use a moderate fire, so that the goods172 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC, may not be burnt, and a small continuous stream brought over to the receiver. There is a little French machine for making after dinner coffee, which is nothing more or less than a distilling apparatus, and which is very useful in pre- paring these distilled waters in small quantities. To treble distil, you distil over again the contents of your receiver; when it* becomes double distilled, and once more when it becomes treble distilled. An ounce of orange flower added to each gallon of lemonade, gives the delicate perfume which is so much appreciated in the high class lemonades of the present day. In the manufacturing of orange flower water, lemonades, &c., of course none but the purest water must be used; if the water is at all murky or thick, a lump of alum, about 1 oz., will purify 1 hogshead ; or if the water is hard, and the presence of lime too pronounced, 1 oz. of chloride of ammonia to the hogshead will rectify it. For water from chalky soils, lime may be added, which causes a precipitate of the chalky particles ; a little carbonate of potash or soda, say a dessertspoonful to about 3 gallons, will make this water as soft as distilled, or the best rain water, for all chemical and manufacturing purposes.TEMPERANCE DRINKS. CHAPTER XII. Temperance Drinks. IN supplying Hotel-KeeperSy Restaurafetirs, and their bar- helps, with the newest and most fashionable drinks of the day, it is but just that w^e should devote a few pages to the notice of Temperance drinks; their manu- facture and serving. It is perfectly true that many of the so-called Temperance drinks — especially those produced by fermentation, and of home, and not brewery manufacture,—are stronger in their alcoholic essentials, than even the table beers brewed by Ind, Coope, Bass or Allsop. This is unwittingly done, no doubt, and the cause of it is very easy to trace. The "better" a man tries to make the beer, i.e.^ the more sugar he puts into it, to suit the palates of ladies and children, the stronger the alcoholic principles become, especially if well fermented. Again, many people think that spruce beer, (black or Dantzic beer) is not an excisable liquor, but the act for the abolition of the malt tax, passed in 1880, declares that "The word beer shall signify: ale, porter, spruce beer, and black beer, and any other description of beer.'* It may be as well therefore for the keepers of Coffee Palaces, Temperance Cafes, and Bars, to be aware of the law on the subject; and it may also be useful to bazaar caterers and others. The extract I give here of the case of Leah v. Minns, is a valuable piece of legal information, as regards the Inland Revenue demands; and embodies the opinions and decision of the highest legal authority in the land,—viz., the Court of Appeal, Queen's Bench. This was an appeal in the Queen's Bench Division of the High Court of Justice, from, a decision from the Nottingham magistrates, as to whether "Botanic Beer"174 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. was a beer within the meaning of the act, and therefore sub- ject to revenue dues. The case was tried in March, 1883, and effectually settles the question as far as the trade of Temper- ance houses is concerned. The case was this : — **The respondent had been summoned at the instance of the Inland Revenue authorities, that he **not being duly licensed to sell beer, cider, and perry, as the keeper of a common inn or alehouse," did sell certain bottles of beer without a license. It seems that the liquor sold was known as "Summer's Botanic Beer," and an analysis showed a density of 1,028.50; and that it contained 5.80 per cent, of proof spirit, which together corresponded with an original gravity of 1,051 degrees. The case stated that the quantity of proof spirit found in beer, varied in Bass's pale ale from 10 to 12 per cent., in ordinary table beer from 2J to 8 per cent., and in lager beer from 6 to 12 per cent. Upon these facts it was contended before the justices, that the articles sold in the bottles in question, was *'beer" within the mean- ing of the Inland Revenue Act, 1880; and that for selling it without a license, the respondent was liable to a penalty of £^10, under section 17 of the Beerhouse Act, 1834, 4 and 5 Will. IV., cap. 85. On the part of the respondent it was proved that Summer's Botanic Beer," was manufactured from water, dried herbs, and sugar; and without malt and hops, and that the analysis showed it did not contain more pure spirit than was often found in ginger beer. The magis- trate upon this found as a fact that the article sold was not beer within the Act, and dismissed the information. Mr. A. L. Smith now argued the case for the appellant, urging that the magistrates were wrong, as the liquor sold was stronger than some table-beer, and was brewed of the very articles pointed at in the Inland Revenue Act, 1880. Mr. R. S. Wright, who appeared for the respondent, argued on the other hand, that looking at what was proved to be the com-TEJIPERANCE DRINKS. ponent parts of the liquor in question, it was unreasonable to call it beer at all; and that even assuming that it was beer within the Act of 1880, inasmuch as these proceedings had been taken under an earlier Act, beer meant beer as then understood, that is to say with malt or hops; and therefore the magistrates were right in dismissing the summons. Baron Pollock in giving judgment in favour of the respon- dent, said it was admitted that beer at one time meant malt or hops, and before the Court could say that something else which had been substituted for these ingredients was beer," it was necessary to see what the Legislature had said; and though it would have been easy enough to do so, it did not appear that in any of the Acts they had passed, they had framed a definition which would include such an article as had been sold by the respondent. The Inland Revenue Act of 1880, provided that sugar might be used as an equivalent for malt; but this did not mean when sugar was used for fer- mentation that it must mean beer. Seeing that the question was one of a penal nature, the words of a statute ought not to be strained, and he was of opinion that the justices were right and the appeal must be dismissed. Mr. Baron Huddlestone concurred." But we must return to the subject matter of this chapter. A Temperance drink, pure and simple, if I understand the rules of temperance societies, ought to be non alcholic and unfermented. I refer to the Good Templars, the Uc K. Alliance, the Rechabites, and others, who are termed the extreme section of the temperance party;" who say they do not allow the minutest particle of alcohol produced by fermentation to enter into their bever- ages. Of course, we as well as they, know that the purest water contains a certain decimal proportion of alcohol; from the muddy water of the Thames to the clear translucent waters of St. Winifred's Holy Well, in North Wales, the176 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. chemists find its presence. I am not stating this in favour of the drinking of alcohol; I simply propound a chemical fact, that nature has placed alcohol in water; and I wish it to be clearly understood that although not a pledged teeto- taller, I try to carry out the advice of St. Paul to the Romans. (Rom. XIV. 3.), showing no vindictive spirit on either side. The Wolseley, Wilberforce, Broadlands (Hants.), and other Temperance drinks will be found in the preceding chapters. (See pages 113-14.) I shall first deal with the — And it is assumed that all the cordials used are strictly tem- perance preparation,—/, e., free from all alcohol, except that naturally found in the water. Ingredients, Mixing: Rub off" the rinds of the lemons on to the lump sugar. Put it into a jug and pour on the boiling water until it is dissolved. Stirring with a silver spoon. Add the strained juice of the lemons, and the pint of milk. Stir the whole to- gether, filter through a jelly-bag, and when clear pour into the punch bowl with the red currant cordial, and a few rings of sliced lemon, and serve with punch ladle in punch glasses. Good Templar's Punch ; Lump Sugar, Lemons, Cordial Red Currant Syrup, Milk, Boiling Water, 1 lb. 3. 1 Bottle (pint) 1 Pint. i Pint. The Sanatorium Hydro-Cup. Codling Apples, 6 Baked. Raspberry Cordial, 1 Bottle. Lemonade, 1 ,, Boiling Water, 1 Pint. Shaved Ice, J „177 TEMPERANCE DRINKS. mixing: Peel off the skin from the apples, and pass them through a wine sieve. Pour on them 1 pint of boiling water, and cover up tight. Let it stand till it is quite cold, this is best made the night before. Stir it up once or twice so that the water may mix freely with the apples. Then put the apple pulp and liquor into a clean cloth, and wring the juice dry from it. The juice should be quite clear, and a dinner napkin without flaws, is the best thing to strain it through. Put this juice into the punch bowl. Add the raspberry cordial. Then the ice, and the bottle of lemonade. This if properly prepared is equal to a champagne cup. Mixing: Put into the punch bowl the cherry cordial, mix in the lemon, and orange flower water. Stand on the ice till it is wanted. Then at the last moment put in the broken ice, and the bottle of seltzer water. Serve at once with a silver ladle for distributing the cup in wine glasses. This is dedicated and invented, with compliments from " Bacchus," to the worthy Chief Templar of England. The Malin*s Champagne Cup. Cherry Cordial, 1 Bottle. Lemon do. 1 Wineglassful. Orange Flower Water, 1 do. Seltzer Water, 1 Bottle. Broken Ice, J Pint. The Abstainer's Nip. Lemon Cordial, Ginger do. Peppermint Cordial, i i Glass. Total. 1 Glass. Mix in above order. L178 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. Nectar of the Peri. Virgin Honey, 1 Dessertspoonful. Orange Flower Water, 1 Tablespoonful. Lemon Cordial, 1 Wineglass. Split Lemon, 1 Bottle. Mixing: Mix the orange flower water and honey in a large bar-glass, add the cordial by degrees. Push the glass towards the customer. Stir the contents well. Pour in the lemonade, and let him drink whilst foaming **a health to all fair lasses." Mix the rose water and honey, and put into the punch bowl,—add the strawberry cordial, and at the moment of serving, the split soda. If ice is liked, \ pint may be added. Infuse the tea, about 3 spoonfuls to the pint, sweeten well with lump sugar. Put 3 rings of lemon in the punch bowl. Pour the sweetened tea while hot on to this, and allow it to remain until it is cold. Then add the seltzer water at the moment of serving. This is a particularly cool and refreshing drink, especially in the summer time, and makes a good febrifuge. The Rose of the Valley Nectar. Honey, Strawberry Cordial, Rose Water, Split Soda, With or without ice. 1 Tablespoonful. 1 Bottle. \ Wineglass. 1 Bottle. The Persian Temperance Cup. Very Sweet Tea, Lemon, Seltzer Water, 1 Pint. 3 Rings. 1 Bottle.179 TEMPERANCE DRINKS. Eastern Cream Nectar. Extra Strong Coffee, Soda Water, 1 Pint. 2 Bottles. 1 TablespoonfuL 1 Pint. 2 Tablespoonfuls. 2 ozs. Honey, Milk, Cream, Sugar, Mixing: Make an infusion of the coffee, about 2 table- spoonfuls to the pint. Whilst hot, dissolve the honey and sugar after straining. Add the milk and cream, stirring it frequently until it is cold. Stand on the ice, or in the freezer, until it is wanted, then add the soda water, and serve at once. This is a delicious drink for balls and garden parties. Some caterers add a wine glassful of orange flower essence, but that in my opinion destroys the bouquet and aroma of the coffee. This is simply a matter of taste. N. B. The coffee must not be boiled, simply an infused pre- paration. Boiling water poured on freshly roasted and ground coffee berries, and allowed to stand from 10 to 15 minutes, then strained off. Also makes a very delicious and healthful beverage: The Pride of Bournville Cup. Of Cadbury's Cocoa Essence make 1 Quart. Sugar to Taste. Mixing: Make the cocoa essence as directed on the packet, using half milk and half water, avoid making it too Cadbury's Essence of Cocoa Vanilla Essence, Cream, Seltzer Water, \ oz. i Pint. 1 Bottle.Appollonaris Water, l8o THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. 1 Bottle. thick. When it is cold stir the vanilla essence into the cream and add to the cocoa. Put the whole into a punch bowl—add a large stone bottle of real seltzer water. Be sure and sweeten the Cocoa essence when making. Press the juice from a quart of bilberries, squeezing them quite dry. Put the juice in an enamelled pan, or preserving pan, add the sugar, also 6 bitter almonds blanched and shred, and scald both together, stirring the whole time. If scum arises, take it off and place it in a small sieve over a basin, the juice that drips through can be returned to the pan. When the sugar is completely dissolved with the juice, pour it out, and let it get quite cold. The rind of a lemon pared very thin and minced, added to the juice that comes out of the pan, and allowed to remain in it until it is cold, imparts a very delicate flavour to the cup. Strain off into the punch bowl, add the appollonaris water and serve briskly. Bird of Coventry's Fruit Champagne Powders Rank very high amongst Temperance beverages, V. e, for those who view the matter of temperance in a very strict light—and will not allow the use of fermented drinks or gingerbeer in their households. The mode of manufacturing is very simple.—Take a 4d. case of the champagne powder, 1 lb. of lump sugar, and 1 gallon of water. Boil the water, dissolve the sugar in it and also the powder. Put in a jar The Belle of the Evening Cup. Bilberries, Lemon, Loaf Sugar, Blanched Bitter Almonds^ 1 Quart. L 1 lb. 6.I8l TEMPERANCE DRINKS. or bottle for use. This will make 32 small ordinary ginger beer bottlesful. The raspberry and lemon are particularly nice—and the . ginger pop makes either a splendid winter or summer drink. These powders are largely used by confectioners and Restau- rateurs, on account of the simplicity in making the beverages from them. They can also be fermented with yeast, and cleared by means of gelatine finings, as in Herb, Ginger, and other beers. The Rechabite Loving Cup. Black Currant Cordial, 1 Bottle. Lemon, „ 1 Wineglassful. Honey, 1 Tablespoonful. Borage, 3 Sprays. Scented Verbena, or, Lemon Thyme, 3 Sprays. Zoedone, 2 Bottles. Mixing: Mix the honey with the lemon cordial; add the black currant; put it in the punch bowl with the borage and lemon thyme. Let it stand for 1 hour. Pour in the bottles of zoedone, and serve at once. The Prince of Orange Cup. Lemon Cordial, i Pint. Clove „ 1 Wineglassful. Orange Champagne, 2 Bottles. Ice, 1 Lump. Mix these ingredients together and serve either out of a punch bowl or claret cup, directly the orange champagne is added.1'82 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. The C. E. T. S. Cup. Montserrat Pine Apple Cordial, 1 Bottle. Lemon Verbena, 3 Sprays. Lemonade, 3 Bottles. Serve at once after adding the lemonade. Tonic Bitters. Gentian, 2 ozs. Quassia, 2 ozs. Angostura Bark, 2 ozs. Turkey Rhubarb, J oz. Seville Orange Peel, Dried and Ground, 2 ozs. Cloves, Bruised, 2 ozs. Mixing: Put these into a jar with the cloves. Pour on them 2 quarts of boiling water. Cork tightly, and infuse for 14 days; strain and bottle. This is a capital recipe for bit- ters, and it will be remarked that in these Temperance drinks I have refrained from giving any essences, as I might have done to save labour, (see Belle of the Evening Cup, page 180) for instance; all almond, peach, noyeau, and sim- ilar essences contain more or less spirit and I should not be doing my duty to my temperance patrons were I to recom- mend their use in the composition of teetotal drinks. I shall conclude my little treatise with a few simple recipes for drinks in the sick room, and for invalids.THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. 183 INVALID DRINKS. Tamarind Drink. Infuse 2 oz. of tamarinds in a pint of boiling water; add 2 ozs of loaf sugar, and a spoonful of rosewater. When cold it is ready for use. Whey. Take 1 pint of new milk; warm it slighty over the fire; add a tablespoonful of rennet; give it a stir round; pour it into a bowl. It will then separate into curds and whey. Pour off the whey and give to the patient, hot or cold, sweetened with sugar and flavoured with nutmeg. In cases of throat polypus, mouth ulcers arising from caries, internal tumours, ulcers or cancers, where the virus swallowed causes the rejection of all foods from the stomach, the use of whey and charcoal biscuits has been know to sustain life for a long time and to effect the most wonderful cures. Whey For Infants and Adults. In a decline, the rennet whey is the only proper kind to give, as it is the pepsine from the calfs stomach, which is of such intense value. The curds should never be thrown away. They can be eaten with nutmeg, sugar and wine. "Cordon Bleu " will tell you, under the head of Cheesecakes what to do with them. White Wine Whey. 1 PINT of milk; put it over the fire in a pan; as it comes to the boil, throw in a wineglassful of sherry. When the milk has turned, strain it through a fine sieve into a tumbler, sweeten to taste, and add spices if required. This is good for a cold.184 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. Alum Whey. Take 1 pint of milk and 2 ozs. of alum (powdered). Put the milk on the fire, and as it rises in the saucepan, stir in the alum. Serve, sweetened with sugar, and flavoured with nutmeg, after straining. This is given in cases of internal bleedings, and diabetes, &c. Invalid Negus. Port Wine, 1 Glass. Boiling Water, 1 ,, Sugar, 2 Lumps. Beat up the egg in a tea cnp. Put the sugar into the tumbler, add a wine glass of boiling water, dissolve the sugar then commence to beat the egg, add the boiling water by degrees. Put the whole into the tumbler, add the port wine and serve. Sherry Negus Can be made in the same way,—substituting sherry for the port. Raspberry and other Cordials May be treated in the same way. Oatmeal Water. Take one tablespoonful of coarsely ground Scotch oat- meal, put it into a jug with a little salt. Pour boiling water over, and serve either hot or cold. Another forai of Oatmeal Drink is 2 table spoonfuls of coarsely ground oatmeal, 3 or 4 rings of a small lemon, cut very thin, and 2 lumps of sugar. Put them into a jug.INVALID DRINKS. 185 Pour on them a pint of boiling water, cover it down until it gets cold, then serve. Apple Water. Slice J lb. of very sour apples into thin rings, add 2 thin rings of quince, and 1 oz. of sugar. Pour on 1 quart of boiling water, cover it down until it is cold, then it is ready to serve. Treacle Posset. Make a pint of thin gruel from fine oatmeal, flavour it with 4 inches of lemon rind, about an inch wide. Lift out the lemon rind, and stir in a table spoonful of treacle. Drink when hot. Treacle and Milk, Is called by some persons a posset. It is simply boiling milk with treacle stirred in. The Mullein Drink a la Dr. Quinlan. This is one of the finest drinks in the world for persons suffering from Chest Complaints, and the earlier stages of Consumption. Take 3 ozs. of the green leaves of the mullein plant, (verbascum thapsusJ and boil for 10 minutes in a pint of new milk, then strain, and sweeten to taste. This dose can be repeated 2 or 3 times per day. Care should be taken to use the leaves of the great mullein only, which may be easily known by its fhtcky mucilaginous^ and woolly leaves.I shall now leave to my collaborateur Cordon Bleu** the pleasure of introducing the reader to the mysteries of con- structing the popular dishes which have appeared in the hotel, club, and private menus, and have been designed and arranged for the trade during the last few years. I must now wish the reader au revoir, and may; ** Good digestion wait on appetite, and health on both." Is the wish of Yours Sincerely, "BACCHUS.'*THE NEW HOTEL GUIDE. HOTEL & RESTAURANT COOKERY. PART II. BY CORDON BLEU.HOTEL AND RESTAURANT COOKERY, BY CORDON BLEU, SYNOPSIS. Part II, CHAP. I.—Kitchen Furnishings for Hotels and Large Mansions, as compared with the require- ments OF Small Families.—igi. II.—The Cleaning of Kitchen Utensils. The Storage OF GOODS FOR KiTCHEN USE.--197. III. —Soups, as prepared at English and Continental Hotels, Restaurants, &c.—204. IV. —HORS D' ai:uvRES. (Little Dishes, Relishes, &^c.)—220. V.—Fish Cooking. Jewish Method. The latest STYLES OF French, Italian, and German Fish Cooking, as arranged by Celebrated Chefs. Good English and Scotch recipes. American dressings.—230. VI.—Releves their Variety, newest styles and ARRANGEMENTS.—245. VII.—New Entrees by Cordon Bleu and the most FAMOUS Parisian and London Chefs.—251. VIII.—On Roasting and Serving.—296. IX.—Pastry, Confectionery, Fruit Gateaux, Creams, AND Trifles, New Inventions, c^c.—303. X.—Fritters, Jellies and Ices, Omelettes and Souffles.—359. XL—Biscuits, Cakes, and Bread.—383. XII. —Salads, Sauces, Pickles, Stocks, Flavorings.—395. XIII. —Foods for the Sick Room.—428. XIV. —Curious Foods, Articles in Season, &c.—449. XV.—Table Decorations, Adornment of Dinner, Ball AND Supper Rooms.—468. iV./y. For Special Index, see end of Book.HOTEL & RESTAURANT COOKERY. and thoroughly efficient, cooking apparatus. I have during CHAPTER L Introduction. HE furnishings of an Hotel, or Restaurant, are most 1 important items, more especially where a large busi- ness is to be carried on. The perfection of the Cuisine^ its appointments and management, determine the success, or failure of the house in a large degree. It is not my purpose to make a trade list of our book, and present to the reader pictures of a frying pan, knives and forks, spoons, &c., as if they had just emerged from savage life, or were novices in the Art of Cooking, or garnished their tables only with bowls of rice, and chop sticks. I venture to lay before them actual experience of implements and furnishings for kitchen work, and should they wish to see a picture of the implement, stove, or what- ever else I may describe, any furnishing ironmonger will supply them with pictures and price lists, without my occu- pying valuable space with them. The Stoves or Ranges, are the chief features in the Chef^s domains. He must have a good, easily managed, my apprenticeship to my art, my probation, and my years of direction in large kitchens, met with almost every kind and variety, from the nameless large wasteful open range, which Stoves.19^ THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. filled the kitchen periodically with dirt, dust, smoke and ashes; to the neat, trim, useful closed or open at will ranges, of the Wilson Range Company. From the flaring yellow flamed gas stove, that poisons the household, as well as the food cooked therein, with deleterious gas fumes; to that economical, perfect, healthful stove, called Fietcher*s Hot Air Oven/* The qualifications of a good stove are: 1. Good heating power. 2. Of permitting the regulation of the heat. 3. The retention of heat, and the equal diffusion of the same throughout the ovens. 4. The perfect combustion of fuel, and as far as possible, the smoke to be self-consuming. This I find in the Improved Wilson Range. It is one of the most Sanitary Stoves I have met with ; and only requires careful setting, and the use of hard Steam Coal, or coke. In fact they burn everything. I always consume the vegetable refuse in them, as they Cremate them perfectly, and the smell of the burning is not perceived, either in the kitchen or club. I never permit waste vegetable refuse to be put in the ash-pit. If there are no pigs, rabbits, or poultry to feed, then it is systematically dried and burnt every day. In the other case, it would be boiled in a copper and given fresh to the animals. Sour swill produces Swine fever. Gas Stoves. Gas Stoves are essential in the work of large Houses.— They are difficult to select. If a perfect combustion of fuel is necessary in a coal range, it is imperative in a gas cooker. Just a few hints, as to the mode of testing in choos- ing. Light a taper, and hold it a little above the jets if circular, or near one. If in rows, turn on the gas and rapidly pass the taper over the burners, or the apertures. Now, note 1st. If the flame be blue ox yellow.—If the latler there is aHOTEL AND RESTAURANT COOKERY. 193 waste of heating power, and an imperfect combustion of gas. 2nd. Pass your hand over the flame ^as closely as possible, then smell at it, and if the combustion is not perfect, your hand will have retained a smell of gas ab- sorbed in the action of passing it over the flame. It is therefore unfit for cooking, or warming purposes. A simple deduction can be drawn from the fact. If your hand passed, once or twice, over the flame smells disagreeably, and tells of the presence of poisonous gas—what will be the result of its action on joints and food exposed for from 10 minutes to say 2, 3 or 4 hours even, to its fumes The efl'ect of this non-conbustion of gas on the Chef 2.xidi his staff", is to produce drowsiness, faintness, and every symptom of gas poisoning. I have therefore used Fletcher's patents, and like them. Besides large gas ovens, there ought to be several of his small rings or boilers, just for Rechauffes^ Petites Sauces, 6^<r. Charcoal Stoves. A CHARCOAL arrangement is also one of the necessaries of a well appointed Hotel kitchen ; especially if one of my French confreres, " Rules the roast," or the stews. Braising is best done on a charcoal fire. And an omelette souffle, all foreigners will agree, is not perfect if otherwise cooked. The heat is less intense, and more regular than ordinary coal fires. Accessories. Of Stockpots there ought to be three; one for white; one for brown stock or glaze; and another for vegetable stock. ''Bain Maries" and Stewpots are essential; also several degrees of sizes of fish kettles. Frying tanks, and kettles must not be neglected, as much of the roasting space can M194 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. be saved, by cooking ducks, fowls, &c., in the frying tanks. It is a more expeditious method, and far superior to close range roasting; as after being fried, the surface is crisp and delicate, the bird palatable, with the gravy and best juices of its flesh preserved. Whereas, in range roasting, if not well and constantly attended to, the surface is moist and the bird either dried up for want of basting, or else half raw, whilst the outside is quite scorched. A small gas coffee roaster too is valuable. Pots and Pans. Copper stewpans, enamelled pots and pans, a digester, turbot kettle, stewpans for range and gas use, all come in the list. I find the ware of the Stourport Anglo-American •Stamping Co., of great use in my kitchens, as far as labour saving, and economic cleanliness is concerned. They save a lot of scrubbing and scouring required by copper and brass vessels. But mind I do not say they supercede the copper pans in some operations; for the slow transmission of heat as produced by copper is often a necessity. Where rapidity is required the Anglo American ware is the thing. Sundries. Baking plates, trays, moulds for boiled, baked, and cold goods; iron shovels for removing dishes, trays, &c., from the ovens; ladles for soups, basting, &c.; spoons of metal, various sizes, ditto of wood; spatulas; paste pins; boards, moulds, cutters for vegetables and pastries; mincing ma- chines, larding needles, cutlet bats, steak pressers and tongs; tart, omelette, and frying pans, various sized; egg poachers; strainers, wire sieves; hair, tammy, and silk ditto; tammy pressers and mashers; whisks of wire, also, revolving and plunger whisks, or egg beaters; fish scissors, and scissors forHOTEL AND RESTAURANT COOKERY. 195 tape, twines, &c.; trussing needles; canisters for baked and boiled flour, cornflour, biscuits, &c.; jars, glass bottles, flour bins, meal ditto, salt boxes, and tin tidies (for salt, black and white pepper); knives of all sorts and sizes; jelly bags, straining cloths,—from the sampler cloth, to the fine lawn; salamander and stand; vegetable strainers, frying baskets, and straining ladles; spoons and slices, of wire and Britan- nia metal. Gum paste boards; palette knives, porcelain palettes and saucers, piping cornets and fancy tubes, sugar boiling pan; small and large ice safes—Jolly's are as good as any, and so are their indestructible blocks—a very necessary piece of hotel furniture; I met with and purchased mine at the Smithfield show, in the London Agricultural Hall. They are there every year on exhibition. A small weighing machine for heavy goods, and a pair of true balance scales^ for general use must be included. For the rest, the general furniture of an ordinary kitchen in the shape of earthenware dishes, basins, plates of all sorts, sizes, and descriptions, to- gether with plenty of crash, linen, and cotton towelling, dusters, dish cloths, dish mops, brushes for vegetables, brooms for pot cleaning, scrubbing brushes, hair and fibre, with dust pans, shovels, housemaid's box, knife cleaners, &c., &c. Economy of First Expenditure. It is the most false economy to stint the cook of appara- tus, for carrying out his trade; and if vegetable slicing machines such as Topham's rotary, or a poly-bladed Julienne, and cabbage knives, or a Hancock's potato washer, are needed to save labour and time; it is cheaper and wiser to expend the few shillings required for extras, than to lose one's reputation for good cookery, overwork the staff, or over* crowd the kitchens with people.196 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. Small Kitchens. Small kitchens often display a most extraordinary want of working materials. A lady would no more dream of attempt- ing to paint without her tubes, her palette, brushes, knives, board, easel, and all complete, than of washing without water, soap and towel; but the lady who sees the necessity of every accessory for her art work, expects her cook to pro- duce art work in the shape ofpiquees without a larding needle; clear soups and aspics without whisks or strainers suitable; iced cakes and pipings, without even a receptacle for mixing, or the cornets to work with. It is a melancholy fact that the rough and ready; the cheapest way to work and carry on a household, governs the hearts and exhibits the narrow-mind- edness of the woman who keeps up appearances by having a cook, and then stints her with apparatus, and is always telling how Lady M. can have this and Lord X. the other from their cooks, but never reasons that they are better supplied than the poor white slaves she is continually dismissing. It is the old tale of Egyptian taskmasters; history repeats itself. Small kitchens ought to be as carefully and well furnished as large ones ; smaller quantities will be needed, thus, say one stockpot, one digester, one moderate sized fish kettle, one frying ditto, one small case of larding needles, a couple of double milk or porridge saucepans as they are called ; a Fletcher's six guinea stove and a couple of extra-detached burners, if in a town. Where gas is dear and bad, if it be preferred, a small Wilson range; these few hints will show what a little forethought on the part of a mistress will do towards producing art work in cookery.HOTEL AND RESTAURANT COOKERY. 197 CHAPTER II. Cleaning Stoves. /CLEANLINESS is next to Godliness" is, I believe, one \J of your English maxims. Dirt is nof artistic, and a dirty kitchen is one of the greatest abominations under the sun. I am no advocate for overtaxing my subordinates on the staff, but, I insist on the early rising of the scullery men and maids, and the keeping of my stoves well polished. They clean best when cold, and if, before closing for the night, 1 see they are greasy, or any accident of spilling liquids has occurred, one of the maids washes the part with hot water, it dries before the range or stove cools, and it is then ready for the morning polishing. The brighter the grate the more you economize the heat and fuel. The flues too of coal stoves of whatever make or kind, ought to be most thoroughly cleansed, say on a Thursday or Friday; everything in an Hotel must be done systematically, and by rule, and if this is not the case, there is nothing but con- fusion and disorder. I have the Dome Lead used, with a little turpentine, and allow my helps plenty of brushes, cloths, &c. So that there is no excuse for idleness. Davis's brass and metal polish" is one of the best mediums for keeping taps, copper, brass, or steel, in good order. By the way the American *' Soap Stone," I call it, is a most valuable kitchen adjunct. It makes the interior of pots and pans shine like silver, cleans stockpots of copper thoroughly inside and out. Our purveyor sends us two firms' importations, one is *'Feir& American cleansing soap,"—the Other ** Pride Qf the kitchen," The former are rather Soap Stone.igS THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. larger squares, but the component parts are just the same quality. For silver spoons, and goods of a like kind the soap is excellent, and I can give it five years' good character. Saucepans and Pots. Saucepans and pots ought to go to the scullery the moment they are done with, and if the men cannot attend to the cleansing at once, fill them with water for half an hour or so, but never leave them longer. Silver sand, cleansing soap, Hudson's soap powder, mason's dust from the stone masons yard, and a little stock of soda, and sound yellow soap—also a small barrel of soft soap and a gallon jar of scouring ammonia, and you will have every- thing to make the pots, pans and dishes, chemically clean. Flannels, pot-brooms, Ticklers," as they are professionally called, pot and dish cloths, small and large brushes, and sail cloth yarn mops, are all wanted. We will take the copper stock-pot as an object to be cleaned. This is done once a week. The stock is run off by the tap, and the bones, meat, &c., placed in a strainer. The pot is rinsed out, and then scoured with mason's dust, the flannel being first dipped in hot water, then in the dust. If any burn adheres to the pot; an almost impossible thing in a properly constructed stockpot, but may occur in braising and stewpans, and the one lesson does for all; use the tickler and a little of Hudson's soap powder to soften it more quickly. When it begins to look like silver then rinse out with plenty of water, using the mop so that every grain of dust may be cleared off. Polish with American soap— dry and proceed to clean the outside. Wash well, wipe dry, and polish with paste. The brighter the better, taps and all. Every day the outside ought to receive a polish up.HOTEL AND RESTAURANT COOKERY. IQQ Enamelled Pans. Clean with American soap stone, or if very dirty outside and in, hoil in a copper with a ley of soft soap and soda. Put them in when the water is cold, boil half an hour, take out, when they will be found to be quite clean, and only require rinsing in clear water, drying and putting away. By the way, the pot shelves ought to be in a dry airy position, damp cellarage, or under sinks, where water percolates through imperfectly burnt bricks, makes the pots musty and full of minute fungi, that impart a bad taste to the food cooked in them. For iron pots scour inside with mason's dust, and have the outside polished with black lead, and the lids silver bright with soap stone, both inside and out. The handles of the pots wiped clean and not blackened in anyway. For EARTHENWARE LINED POTS, use ley, sand, or spirits of salt if very dirty, and they will come all right. Kettles that are fur lined are cleaned with spirits of salt, (muriatic acid J but the spirit for the cleansing must be personally kept and used by the Chef. It is a rank poison, and corrosive, and although we use it in certain freezing machine mixtures, still it is one of those kitchen requisites best kept under lock and key; dealt out by the Chef, and used in his presence only. We all know about the oyster shell, the halfpenny and the marble in the kettle, but they fur for all that; and spirits of salt is what I use, and prefer it to having my kettles destroyed at the tinsmiths by the process known as " Scaling," by a hammer and cold chisel. Place the kettle on the sinkstone, pour in about 2d. worth of the spirits. It will immediately effervesce, keep your head well away from the smoke, e. gaseous vapour which arises, work the salts well round, tilt the kettle to every200 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. point, and slowly through the spout till the hissing ceases, pour down the sink pipe which it will cleanse, rinse with boiling water, boil out with soda water, and you will have for 2d. and 10 minutes' labour, cleansed the kettle and kept it in good condition, that would have cost Is. 6d. at the professional "Scalers." Spirits of salt should be used in the urinals, to free them from lime deposits, and ammoniacal salts, also plenty of *'Jeye's Perfect Purifier" in the kitchens and lavatories. This is a non-poisonous disinfectant; safe, for home and kitchen use; far safer than carbolic acid, for if it should be taken internally, no serious harm will accrue, and for cuts, burns and scalds, I always like to have it handy. The juice of the living pine trees, as prepared by Jeyes, is far superior as an antiseptic and healer, than the liquid extracted from the dead and buried forest monarchs, now termed coal—the source of carbolic acid. Food Storage, The pantries for dry goods, should be dry, well ventilated, and of moderately even temperature. Of course in large kitchens we buy in bulk at Wholesale rates, and Market prices, with reductions on large quantities. But it is a bad plan to overstock. It is best where the Chef can buy in or the Maitre (T Hotel himself see after the purchase, examine the goods; not merely looking at the surface show of a box of grapes, or a barrel of apples, or crate of cauliflowers, but to see by personal inspection, before loading, paying, or removing from the market stand. There is neither crime nor meanness in such an examination, it is a fact that if you are not particular, and trust the sellers, they jocularly tell one another how they have done" you, and how ** simple," " soft," and lazy," you are, while they respect and serve well the man they term a sharp un," who is " mighty particular,"HOTEL AND RESTAURANT COOKERY. 20I The vegetable pantry should have a good stone, or brick floor, and be of a northern aspect. And the stores of winter carrots, potatoes, and turnips kept in bins, and well covered, to protect them from frost. Shelves for apples, which should be spread out so as not to touch each other, and placed bud downwards. The stock requires periodical ex- amination, the shelves washing and scrubbing, and the stock kept off till they are perfectly dry. Keeping pears, I hang under the apple shelves; these being made in strips two inches wide, and one inch open, like soap and candle store shelves. I tie a string to the pear stalk, and tie it to a bar of the shelf, and there it hangs till wanted. To ripen, I store in little air tight boxes for a few days or a week, surrounding them with cotton wool or flannel. Flour, I like in iron bins, they are less likely to harbour the weevil and do not absorb damp and wet. Besides, the iron bins on wheels are more useful, being easily transported from one kitchen to another, or to the scullery for cleaning. Baked flour for brown roux and sauces, I keep in a large canister near the fire, to be dry and handy, also the corn flour; white, sifted and baked crumbs, and brown crumbs and raspings. Jars, glass bottles for such goods as rice, tapioca, sago, large and small, potatoe flour, rice flour, corn flour, dessi- cated cocoanut, &c., &c., I keep in my general stores. All labelled plainly, so that if I were ill, my sub could make no mistake. It is only an evening's amusement, to make the apprentices write in a fair hand labels, cut them out, and paste them on, and they last a couple of years if the jars are carefully cleaned. Soaps should be bought in bulk in the summer time, also stearine and composition for decorative moulds. By the way, mutton fat, home rendered, is just as cheap, and if a202 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. little acid is used, it whitens it, and serves to make it more like ivory, for boar's head tusks, and ornamental carvings, now so much in vogue. Green vegetables should be emptied out of the crates as soon as possible, all yellow, soft, bruised, or decaying leaves removed, and then stored in a damp cellar on the floor, they will keep fresh for days, and celery so treated, for months. To revive, place in water a couple of hours, rinse and change the water, leave them another hour, and then cook, using sugar in the process. If the portions of celery to be used at the table, are steeped for a couple of hours in sugar and water, they will not tell of long keeping. By the way, I adopt the Parisian method of preserving potatoes; before storing, they are all washed with the broom washer, carefully so as not to break the skin, then they are put into nets, and plunged into boiling water for a minute (60 seconds,) then withdrawn, drained, and left two days to dry, being turned during the time. This prevents the sprouting, killing the life germs, and the potatoes keep fair and white till the next season, and we only have to help ourselves from the bins, frost being the only enemy we fear. We buy from the growers, flukes and regents. Sugars, gelatines, powders, (such as baking and preservative food liowdtr) musf be kept in dry sweet smelling store closets; like flour and bread they soon absorb damp and bad smells. Meat safes are plentiful, as I said before, I use Jolley's, and find none better. For scrubbing tables, boards, &c., use mason's dust. It supercedes all the pipe clay and coarse sand, or soap mix- tures. Have a few drops of coal ammonia in the water, the floors are washed with. It keeps down vermin and prevents grease spots becoming deep seated. Fuller's earth, or my favourite soap stone, will soon remove grease spots.HOTEL AND RESTAURANT COOKERY. 2O3 Black beetles are a cause of trouble in kitchens. I re- member one Chef who used the fire hose to get them oflf the walls, but they revenged themselves that night, they crept into the pigeon pies for a great masonic ball supper ! Now I never give them the most remote chance of so doing, on the principle That prevention is better than cure,'* and I strew rhubarb leaves smooth side downwards on the kitchen and bakery floors, and the maids or men sweep up the remains of the beetles, crickets, &c., &c., cremate them and the leaves, fresh leaves are used for a few days, and then the pests are got rid of. I have to thank the British and Foreign Confectioner''s correspondents for the first hint. I laid traps, used poisons, but the beetles were too wary. The rhubarb leaves however were a big success.204 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. CHAPTER III. General Remarks on Soups. OUPS as prepared at the average English Hotel and O Eating Houses, are perhaps not the best liquid pre- parations of the kind one could wish. There are houses where good soups of course may be had, and little eating houses, where a far 'more palatable compound may be had for 4d. than is to be procured at some of the more stylish and fashionable Hotels or Restaurants. Take for instance the little a la mode Beef'^ho^ not far from Regent Circus and The Pavilion. It is one of the resorts of London, and indeed a few pennies are well expended on a good potage. It is evidently not prepared from dish washings, or semiputrid meat. Nor the water in which a ham has been boiled, just thickened with knots of uncooked flour, a preparation for which I paid 6d. in Fleet Street. A soup ought really to be a decoction of meat, or vege- tables, as the case may be. Water is a powerful absorber, vide the mineral waters, as iron, chalybeate magnesia, &c., of the spas, produced by the water absorbing as it passes over or through beds of these substances, the active and soluble principles of these minerals. Soup is supposed to be the water or milk, which has extracted from meat and vegetables, either singly or altogether, their soluble parts. For this reason a slow process is quite imperative. Cold water is placed in the vessel, and the meats or vegetables, or both, are subjected to gentle gradual heat. Much in the same way as the wives of the Swiss cowherd or farmer, prepare their butter for keeping. It ought not to reach to boiling point under two hours. It rises gradually to 212^ F,HOTEL AND RESTAURANT COOKERY. 205 Now as it is rising skim all the rough brown, or grey looking scum off. Salt must not approach the stock pot till after boiling point is reached. Why you ask ? Because salt hardens all albumen^ whether it be white of egg, meat or vegetable albumen. Now salt and re-skim them, draw the heat off, I. e. turn off the steam if you are using a jacketted steam digester, or lower the gas, or move to another portion of the range, so that the liquid may continually simmer at about 120^ F. It should simmer day and night, keeping it well cleared of fat or oil. When required, it is drawn off by taps. Meat Stocks. Meat stock is divided into two kinds, — 1st. The higher grade stock, for clear soups, white soups, sauces, &c. 2nd. Second grade stock or brown stock, for brown soups, gravies, sauces, and general use. No. 1. Is, in England, prepared with veal, fowl, very lean mutton, rabbit, &c.; all white meats. Nothing brown, dis- coloured, or tinged by roasting or braising goes into it. You read in cookery books of knuckles of veal, 5 and 6 lbs. of lean veal, and the ignorant cook and still more foolish housewife follow them to the letter. Of course the soup is good. How could it be otherwise ? But it is a horrible waste. And how Chefs laugh. It is perhaps in this item of soups that we save, even if our emoluments are high. A good Chef never wastes a single piece of skin, gristle, or bone, all go to the stock-pot. Ham bones, rinds of ham, all help to make soups, brown or white, or that most useful item, glaze. White Stock. Take a shank of veal, or cow's heel; any remains of boiled or roast fowls, or fowls that have been boned, using only the206 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. white portions, bones, &c., place in the stock-pot and cover with clear, cold water, i J quarts to the i lb. of meat; the softer the water, the better the soup. Add spices, such as white peppers, mace, celery seed, cardamums, at will; no ground spices, or the soup will cloud, and only enough of the whole spice to delicately flavour the stock. I enclose the spices in a tea strainer ball till the stock is skimmed, then I proceed with the skimming, and when boiling, salt. When the liquid has reduced, I just keep the meat covered, and if more water has to be added, it is taken from the hot water tank. As stock is wanted draw it from the taps. It should be clear and bright. It can now be flavoured with vegetables or spices, and used in the making of soups or sauces. In Continental Hotels of the first class, they use beasts* and sheep's lights to make white stock, for clear soups, adding soaked gelatine, to give it the consistency of soup from knuckles of veal and bones, &c. At other hotels, the clear soup is entirely made of gelatine, soaked in water, dissolved, diluted with warm water, as for aspic and other jellies. The flavourings of meat and vegetable, spices, &c., are given in the process of clearing. But good stock stews till it clears itself. No. 2. Brown stock is made from coarse meats, sticking part of beef, bones from legs of mutton, ribs of beef, lean trimming of meat not otherwise wanted ; rabbit heads, ham bones, **not too many, but just enough," leaving out all marrow and fat, which latter is utilized in another way. Just prepare it as for white stock, using if you like, black pepper, pimentos, cloves or any such spices, and cook as directed in the General Remarks. Clear the pot out thoroughly once a week, and renew the stock-making material every 24 hours. To Make Glaze. Strain ofl" all the stock that is to spare, put it into a chemically clean pot or stewpan, and boil down till it is ofHOTEL AND RESTAURANT COOKERY. 207 the consistence, and has the appearance of molasses—not golden syrup; but thick treacle. Oil square tin trays, pour this on. When it is nearly set, mark it out into squares. When quite set, dry and store for use. A cook who knows anything of kitchen work will always have plenty of home made glaze by him. In the Continental Hotels brown soup, and stocks are pre- pared from liver of beasts, half its weight in lights, J its weight of the milt, cut into strips, also bones. This is stewed or simmered for 24 hours, and is then ready to make the foundation of every brown soup under the sun. Hare soup that never saw a hare; gravy soups, &c., ad. lib. Vegetable Stock. Take carrots, turnips, leeks, or onions, celery, &c., but let there be less turnip and onion than other vegetables. There are plenty half turnips, and carrots that have been used for the red portions as garnish, or for macedoine, &c., and the honey combs thus made, are never thrown away but put into the stock-pot. All except beetroot, that is used up in small salads. The quantities are one pint of water to each 1 lb. of vegetable. These also are stewed, being placed in cold water and gradually brought to boiling point. This boils for 6 hours, and is then racked off. It is also salted after it has boiled. Milk Soup. Ingredients: Cowheel, or knuckle of veal; 2 quarts of milk ; 2 ozs. of mild onion; 2 ozs. of carrot; 1 oz. of turnip (white); whole pepper, mace, cornflour, salt. As this soup requires to be prepared by itself, and not from the contents of either stock-pot on account of the salt, I give it under the sample soups. Choose a dressed cowheel.208 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. procure a hind leg, they are most serviceable, and have more meat on them than the fore feet. Divide the foot and cleave the bone in two; place in a stewpan with the sliced vegeta- bles, spices and milk. This soup must simmer for two hours, then strain off and return to the saucepan. Thicken with a heaped tablespoonful of cornflour moistened with cold milk. Then salt the soup. If it is salted before the thickening is added the milk will curdle. Cut the meat from the heel; pick out the whitest and most tender parts; trim them into dice, about J inch squares; to every quart allow 4 table- spoonfuls. A family soup is made by putting in about treble the quan- tity of vegetables, and when they are cooked, pressing them through a pulper or wire sieve with a tammy presser. Adding the cornflour as above, but, sending the heel to the table, with parsley and butter sauce. Potage a L'Imperatrice de L'Inde. (Empress of India Soup.) Ingredients: 2 quarts of rich brown stock; game, such as cold roast pheasant, partridge, ptarmigan, &c., truffles, egg, rusks, brown baked flour, curry powder, cowslip wine, Jordan almonds, blanched. Make a fine forcemeat of game, binding it together with an egg, and using delicate spices and truffles in the manufac- ture. Shape balls as large as marbles and poach in stock. Put the brown stock into a ''Bain Marie' pan. When it boils thicken with—to each quart—1 tablespoonful of fawn-colour- ed baked flour, and 1 dessertspoonful each of pounded Jordan almonds, and curry powder. Let it simmer one hour. Put into the tureen 1 wineglass of cowslip wine, and pour the soup to this, add the forcemeat balls, and serve the soup with grated or ground rusks.HOTEL AND RESTAURANT COOKERY. 20^ N. B. It is imperative that the forcemeat should be very fine for all these high class dishes, not only passed through the mincer twice but well manipulated in the mortar, and in many kitchens it is passed through a fine meshed steel wire sieve. Potage a la Due de Connaught, (Duke of Connaught Soup.) Ingredients: Cold cooked fowl, 1 quart of brown stock, \\ pints of vegetable stock, 2 tablespoonfuls of fresh coarse- ly ground linseed meal—a few fresh vegetables, herbs, butter, curry powder, cream. Put the newly ground meal into the oven, and bake for quite 15 minutes, taking care that it does not burn. Whilst it is baking, cut the white flesh of a fowl into dice, say about a teacupful. Mix the two kinds of stock, and pour them into a clean stewpan, add a slice or two of carrot, a bunch of sweet herbs, (parsley, thyme, bayleaf,) stew these for a few minutes to extract the flavour, then strain off. Put into the stewpan 2 ozs. of butter, and make a roux with the linseed meal, add a tablespoonful of curry powder of medium strength, then pour in the stock gently by degrees, stirring the whole time; next lay in the fowl, let it simmer half an hour. Skim and serve. Potage a la Albert Victor* (Albert Victor Soup.) Ingredients: i lb. Veal, cream, 2 eggs, mushroom powder, parsley, white baked flour, pepper, salt, nutmeg, water, white cream sauce, flaky paste, clear white stock, gelatine, herbs, i lb. of lean beef. For every quart of soup it is intended to make, soak i oz. N2 TO THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. of gelatine in cold water, just about 2 tablespoonfuls. Whilst it is soaking prepare the veal by passing it twice through a fine mincing machine. Every bit of stringy fibre must be removed, then season with pepper and salt, &c., pounding the meat in a mortar for quite 5 minutes; then add the yolk of an egg, work this well into the veal, also a table- spoonful of flour. Now form it into little balls as large as a hollyberry. Roll out flaky paste quite thin, cut it into IJ inch squares, re-divide crosswise. Put a ball into each, and a small quantity of cream sauce, wet and pinch up the paste to the shape of a cocked hat. Allow about 4 for each ladle of soup. Brush over with egg, and fry a golden brown, the colour of maize or Indian corn—drain on 2 papers, and keep hot. PART II. Take the gelatine put it into a stewpan with 2 quarts of white stock, pass the lean beef through the mincer and add with it a bunch of sweet herbs. Taste the stock and see if it is quite agreeable to the palate. If it requires more seasoning, add it in the shape of whole spices. Now whisk vigorously till a good foam rises. This cannot be done with a rotary whisk, use the old-fashioned wire. Whisk till it boils, when it begins to rise in the pan let it come well up the sides for a minute or two, then turn down the gas and leave it to clear. Many people use white of egg and shells—but they only impoverish the quality of the soup.— If however, the stock is badly prepared, thick from in- sufficient cooking, or improper ingredients, use the whites and shells of the eggs (2) in place of the gelatine. Strain through a fine linen cloth, and pour into the tureen by the aid of a tunstal. The little decorations should be at the bottom of the tureen and the soup the colour of fine pale sherry. A few V. A. Italian paste stars, and the soup is ready for table.HOTEL AND RESTAURANT COOKERY. 211 Potage a la Camerani. (Camerani Soup.) Ingredients: Neapolitan Macaroni, the livers of 2 dozen fowls, (if not easily obtained, use the giblets of 2 or 3 fowls, and sheep's liver sliced very thin,) celery, lettuce, carrots, turnips, leeks and parsnips. The latter may be omitted but they are proper for the soup. Butter, bouillon^ parmesan. Mince the meat quite finely, also the vegetables, put the whole into a saucepan with some butter to cook. Blanch the macaroni by placing over a gentle fire, (charcoal stove,) let it come slowly to the boil, skim, pour off the water, rinse with cold, and lay it in a tureen case. The tureen case is a moveable inner lining, like the cheese toaster; in which this class of potage is cooked. On the macaroni lay a bed of the meat and vegetables, and cover with grated cheese, only a slight covering, a dusting as it were. Cover with brown stock, or bouillon, place the case in a fish kettle, where it will rest on the top, and no steam escape. Cook till the carrot and macaroni are tender, then serve. This is a favourite soup with Italian nobles, and French gourmets, Lenten Soup a la Gladstone. (Gladstone's Lent Soup.) Ingredients: 3 Smelts, eggs, bread crumbs, fish stock, sweet herbs, bayleaf, shallot, guinea fowls' eggs. Crutons fried. Saffron. Take the skinned smelts, curl them round, fix the tail in the mouth ; dress them with eggs and bread crumbs, fry a fine deep gold colour. By the way, a little of Freman's egg powder, mixed with the crumbs, gives a glorious colour, and is safe, as it is pure and free from astringents. Drain212 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. the fish on several papers, keeping them warm. Boil Plover's eggs quite hard, plunge into cold water, peel and quarter. Lay them and the fish in a pattern, in a hot silver tureen. Have some fish stock, i. e. liquor in which fish bones and delicate white fish has been stewed; a tail of cod makes good stock, and the flesh can be used for rissoles. Clear with gelatine J oz. and the white and shell of an egg, whisk till it boils, of course adding the herbs, parsley, shalot, give it a minute to boil, then turn out the gas, leave it three minutes, and strain through a fine linen napkin. It should be quite clear, and a drop of safi'ron gives a good tone to it. Warm in a jug placed in a pan of boiling water, and then pour into the tureen through a tunstal, so as not to disturb the pattern. Potage des Huitres. (Oyster Soup.) Ingredients: 1 Doz. native oysters to each quart of soup. White stock Fecule de povinie de ierre (potatoe flour starch,) milk or second cream, parsley, cracknel biscuits. The American oyster soup is a treat. Open the oysters and lay them in the bottom of the tureen, with 2 tablespoon- fuls of minced parsley, and cracknel biscuits quartered. If you have any fish stock from the bones of soles, plaice, whiting, mackerel, &c., that have been used for fillets, stew them with herbs and spices, and use the liquor; if not, draw from the white stockpot 1 quart of soup to the dozen oysters. Put it into the stewpan with about J pint of vegetable stock and let it boil till reduced to the original quart; then take a tablespoonful of potatoe flour, moisten with fresh milk or cream, about 2 tablespoonfuls, add cayenne, and a dust of mace, stir this into the boiling stock, boil for 3 minutes, and then transfer rapidly to the tureen. This cooks the oysters quite enough, and is the reason why the AmericanHOTEL AND RESTAURANT COOKERY. 213 oyster soup tastes better than ours. We scald the oysters first. Where tinned oysters are used, pour off the liquor and warm it with the soup—also let the soup be oft the boil a minute before dishing. Potage a la President Grant. (President Grant's Soup.) Ingredthi/s: 2 Spring chickens, lean ham, brown stock, spices, marigolds, rice, tomatoes, seasonings. This was a very favourite soup at the White House. Cut up a couple of tender chickens into neat joints; take a slice of fine lean ham; fry the ham a little, and then add the chickens. When they are nicely browned, cut the ham into pieces about the size of the merry-thought. Then transfer them to a stewpan, with 3 quarts of houillofiy (or brown stock,) and vegetable stock mixed; 2 ozs. of rice washed in one or two waters, and a 2 lb. tin of tomatoes, pulped through a tammy sieve. Keep it carefully skimmed. When serving, strew a few'fresh or dried marigold flowers over the top. See that the stock you use is well flavoured, if not, add sea- sonings in moderation. Potage a la Tortue Claire. There is a slight difl'erence between Tortue Claire and Potage a la Tortue Claire, I frequently see in Hotel Menus, the one placed for the other. For instance Tortue Claire, for Clear Mock Turtle, and Potage a la Tortue Claire, for Clear Turtle Soap, whereas it means by a la mode, in the fashion of; the word, mode, being an ellipsis in regular French parlance. It is therefore left out, but, as it signifies, ** In the style ofwhen a la, is placed before a word, care should be taken. If we say a la Tortue, therefore we mean in the Style of Turtle; Potage de Tortue Claire; or Tortue Claire simply means Clear Turtle Soup, and not214 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. an imitation, or a similar style, but the Soup from Turtle flesh itself. Potage a la Tortue Claire, (Clear Mock Turtle.) Soak i lb. loose gelatine in 2 quarts of cold water, with a few whole white spices. Prepare the following, viz.; force meat balls ; with the sweet herbs powdei'ed and sifted, before mixing in. Nothing shows up slovenly cooks, like meeting whole leaves of thyme, &c., in forcemeat. Poach the balls. Cut up cow heel, lean veal and lean portions of pig*s head, into dice, and lay on one side for future use—or use a calf s head or the remains of one. Put the gelatine into a pan with the rind of a lemon, minced very finely, J lb. of very lean gravy, beef chopped fine, sliced vegetables, and the shells and whites of a couple of eggs, begin to whisk with a switch whisk—whip till it boils, then let it boil thoroughly, turn off the gas, or lift cautiously off the fire, so as not to disturb the particles rising to the top and clearing the soup. Let it rest three minutes, strain through a napkin and serve with the forcemeat balls, and the cubes of meat, which should be warmed in clear stock, strained and put into the tureen—Or use clear white stock instead of gelatine. Tortue Claire. (Clear Turtle.) Soak J lb. of sundried turtle for 24 hours, changing the water twice and keeping the flesh covered. Stew in fine flavoured white stock for 6 hours. Then lift out the turtle, cut it into dice. Prepare forcemeat balls and poach them; then drain and lay aside till wanted. Clear the soup with gravy, (and the whites and shells of eggs, if necessary,) andHOTEL AND RESTAURANT COOKERY. 2 T 5 Strain. Warm the turtle and forcemeat balls in white stock, drain, and add to the soup. The soup should be a fine sherry colour. Some people add sherry and brandy. That is a matter of choice, and the custom of the house. Serve a good, well made Punch after Turtle soup. Potage a la Tortue. (Mock Turtle Soup.) Ingredients: Calf's head ought to be the chief basis of this soup; but it can be made from 2 cow's heels; half a pig's head, and brains of an ox; carrot, turnip, celery, lemons, mace, salt, pepper, brown-baked flour, butter, Marsala or cowslip wine, brown stock, vegetable stock. Soak both the head and the cowheels in cold water, and scrape and wash very clean, remove the brains from either pig's or calf's head, and lay them aside for blanching. If necessary, blanch the head and feet so that they may be free from dirt and hairs, t. e, put them into a large pan or boiler cover with cold water; let it come to the boil, and skim the while, pour off the water. Scrape off the hairs, and the meat is ready for cooking. Put into a pan with six quarts of brown stock and two of vegetable stock, and let it stand over a slow fire. It should come to the boil and be watched and skimmed. Have ready the vegetables, sliced and nicely fried brown in butter, nof hurnty but browned. Stew the head &c., quite 5 hours, very gently, having added salt when it has come to the boil. Lift out the meat, which should slip from the bone, but not be over-cooked and ragged. Place it on a dish and return the bones to the stock. Skim every particle of fat off. Then put in the fried vegetables, and a bunch of sweet herbs, the rind of a lemon, cut into small dice, seasoning spices, cloves, &c., and only very few of these. Stew rather than boil for 3 hours. Strain through a sieve. Return to the pot,2l6 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. and let it come to the boil. Moisten 2 tablespoonfuls of baked-brown flour with cold veal stock for each quart of liquor left after cooking; pass it through a pointed strainer, that there may be no knots in it, and that it may be as smooth as satin. Cut the meat into dice and add to the soup. When it has thickened, pour it into quart and pint basins, and store, with an equal share of meat to each portion of soup. To SERVE. Warm a silver bowl or tureen, as it may be required, for one or more customers; pour into the very hot bowl or tureen, a glass of Mott's cowslip wine, if for people who still appreciate refined gout\ or Marsala of the fiery type, for the edification of palates who love red-hot mixtures. A popular chef must study his customers' tastes as well as his dishes; he has to cater for the refined and the gross. Then add the soup. Potage a la Sir Stafford Northcote. {Sir Stafford Northcote's Soup.) Ingredients : Strong white stock, veal, and chicken, puree double cream, almonds, saff'ron, cowslip wine, eggs, aspara- gus—or green peas, sugar, salt, pepper, &c. Make a fine white force-meat of fowl or chicken, and lean veal in equal parts. It must be as fine as for Quenetles. Mix in a mortar with \ lb. of sweet almonds, that have been blanched ; next take the tender asparagus stalks. Cut them into peas ; cook them in w^ater containing a little sugar, soda, and salt; boil the harder green portions of the stalk a few minutes, before the tender heads are added,—if out of season use green peas, fresh or canned. When cooked, drain them, lay them in the bottom of the tureen. Put the soup stock over the fire in a saucepan. Mix in the puree of meat, fowl and almonds. Let it simmer gently for two hours; then liftHOTEL AND RESTAURANT COOKERY. spice (see page 34); 4 rounds of true German rye bread, (or off and add 1 pint of double cream, which has been blended with the yolks of two eggs. Whip this into the soup until it is as thick as cream ; keeping it at a moderate heat as if making a custard. It must not boil after adding the cream and eggs. When thick and quite hot, pour into the tureen containing the asparagus peas. And if not of a rich colour, add a little saffron spirit just to deepen. Add a glass of cow- slip wine, just chilled to the soup, and serve. The German and German Swiss are particularly fond of sweet soups,—syrup soups, one might almost call them. I shall give one or two receipts and commence with Potage a la Kron Printz. (Crown Prince's Soup.) Ingredients: Fresh or bottled cherries, 4J lbs.; 1 lemon ; Rhine wine; cochineal, crown biscuits, sugar. Make a puree of the fresh or bottled cherries, crack 1 quar- ter of the stones, bruise the kernels, and put into a cup. Cover them with red wine, and let them stand for an hour. Mix the puree with 1 lb. of sugar, the rest of the bottle of Rhine wine (red). Strain the wine off the kernels and mix with the cherries, &c. The potage should be about the consis- tency of good potato soup. To cook, place it in a Bain Marie'^ saucepan. Let it become hot, without actually boil- ing, as if it boils, the bouquet or aroma of the wine, and there- fore, the beauty of the soup, will be lost. To serve, put 1 dozen crown biscuits in the tureen, pour the soup over and serve. Potage de Schwartz-brod. (Rye or Blackbread Soup.) Ingredients: Munich lager beer, 1 quart, spice with beer2l8 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. black bread); cut into abput 10 little pieces in each fancy patterns, and fry in oil or butter till quite crisp, and put them into a hot silver tureen. Warm a metal mortar and pound the remainder of the rye bread which ought to be fried as well as the crutons. Pound it to powder with the pestle. Mix with the soup (beer) whilst the soup is cold. Add powdered sugar. Beat up the yolks of 3 eggs and add to the beer, commence to whisk with a wire whisk, and lift the stewpan on to the fire. Whisk till it is very hot and begins to thicken. Then dish it up by pouring into the tureen over the crutons. It must not boil. Whisk for a second or two after removing from the fire, and serve at once. The common rye bread soup, is lager sweetened, the crusts or slices of brown bread baked till quite hard and dry like rusks. Then rolled out or pounded with a stone to crumbs. Heated and served. Potage de Chataigne. (Chestnut Soup.) Ingredients: 69 Chestnuts (or fecule de chataigne)^ roasted ; raw eggs, onion, turnips, celery, cream. This soup is best made with roasted chestnuts. The fecule gives neither the rich taste of the roasted nut or its creamy appearance. Boiled chestnuts produce a grey mess, not very pleasant even if boiled in milk. Take 60 chestnuts, roast them over the charcoal arrange- ment or in the gas oven. See that they do not burn. When cooked, husk and peel off the outer shell and inner skin; Pound in a mortar with a raw egg till they are a paste, season with pepper and salt. Stew an onion, turnip, and celery in white sauce 15 minutes; strain it off; mix with a pint of cream; add the chestnut paste. Put it over the fire in aHOTEL AND RESTAURANT COOKERY. 2ig i clean pan, and stir till nearly on the boil. Pour into the hot tureen; add a glass of white wine at will or not, as may be desired. Potage de Chataigne au Suere. (Sweet Chestnut Soup.) Ingredients: 60 Roasted chestnuts; 1 quart of lager beer, or white wine; 1 glass of cognac; lump sugar, 4 ozs. pow- dered ; cruions. Roast 60 chestnuts, husk, peel, and pass through a wire sieve. Mix the puree with either 1 quart of lager beer or white wine, as preferred. Put this into a stewpan with the sugar, stir till it is very hot. Lift off the soup, and stir in the glass of cognac. Lay fancy cut crutons of rye or white bread; 2 for each ladleful in the tureen. Pour the sweet chestnut puree soup over and serve. Potage au lait D'Amandes. (Almond Milk Soup.) Take 1 lb. of Jordan almonds, blanch them in boiling water, and as they are done, one by one throw them into cold water. When all have the brown skin remove, drain them, put them into a mortar and pound to a paste, using pearl sugar to prevent their oiling. Put into a saucepan 3 pints of cold water, the juice of a lemon, a teaspoonful of coriander seeds and half the rind of the lemon, let it come to the boil, then stir in the almond paste, let it stew for 1 hour, pass through a tammy, serve with fried crutons of white bread. Taste and add a little salt and more sugar if needed. It can be made of milk if liked, or a liason of milk and eggs added after it is removed from the fire. If the latter, it can be rechauffed, but must not boil.2 20 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. HERE is just one want in the large popular cookery 1 books of the day, they give too little information about Hor's d'CEuvres. Yet they form no unimportant portion of fashionable, hotel, club, and private dinners. I intend there- fore to devote this chapter entirely to them, so that it may be a guide to the caterer and hotel-keeper who is willing to receive a few hints, also to the young housekeeper and the cook, seeking to better the style of their dinners. Hors d' (Euvres are also called in France, Mels, or little dishes, because they are served directly after the soup, and used in high class French Hotels, and houses, to ornament the table between the first and second service. They are placed in the most elegant and gracefully embellished, hatteaux deporcelaine, called Hors d' CEiwreSy varying in colour and contour according to their contents. In the Parisian kitchens, we divide Hor''s d^ceuvreSy into 2 classes, viz. Animal and Vegetable. At English tables as a general rule, we find only oysters, devilled sardines, anchovies, in about 3 styles. White bait, and a limited selection of little dishes. A French Cy^-?/"includes in his category the following:— Broils (as Broiled Bones) Grillades, Devilled Sausage^ Saucisses Chaud, Tongue Broiled, Sanguefoiirrees. Minced Pork, Rillettes de Tours, CHAPTER IV. Hor's d'CEuvres. (Mets.) (Relishes.) (Little Dishes.) Truffled Feet, Savoury Puddings. Pieds Triiffes, Boudius,HOTEL AND RESTAURANT COOKERY. 221 Chitterlings. Grated Beef, (Smoked.) Jerked Beef, Salt Herrings, Crab, or Crawfish, Lobster, Smoked Salmon, Caviare, Small Patties. Andoiiilles. Le Bceuf Fume. Boeuf a la Americaine. Harengs Sales Si. Fume, Ecrevisse. Hofnard. Le Saumon Marine et fume, Le Caviare. Les Petits Pates, And a dozen others. The Vegetable Hor's CEuvres embrace amongst other dainties :— Devilled Artichokes in Sauce, Les Petits Artichauts a la Poi And many more too numerous to mention. I do not say these never appear at large public and private dinners but it is so seldom, that one wonders why it is so. Just take for instance that delicious of all whet relishes, or whatever you choose to call it, so popular in leading Parisian Restaurants, and which is known only to few English gour?7iets, and only those whose palates have been trained by some Club, or Hotel Maestro, who dares to venture from the beaten track : Green Maize, Stuffed Olives, Gherkins, Samphire Pickled, Dulse, Laver Bread, Pickles of Fruit, &c., Radishes, Pickled Mushrooms, Pickled Eggs, Mais Vert. Les Olives Farcies. Les Cornichons. Samphire du Vinaigre. Legumes de Mer. Les Fruits et Legumes Marine. Radis et le Raves. Champignons au Vinaigre. Des (Eufs Marines. Cucumbers, Vrade. Concomhres.the new guide for hotels, etc. Olives Farcies en Thuile et Truffles. (Stuffed Olives and Truffles.) Ingredients: Bordeaux anchovies, olives, truffles, oil of the purest, pepper, cayenne, salt, lemon. Take out the olives, wash and dry them. Of course I am alluding to the plain pickled olive. Take six of them, with a vegetable cutter remove the centre—and fill with the fol- lowing forcemeat, pounded in a mortar—3 anchovies, the grated rind of a lemon, a little of the fish oil, cayenne and black pepper. Pack it firmly into the olives, and then with a sharp knife slice. Lay these in alternate layers on an elegant plate, or glass dish, with sliced truffles and pickled eggs—pour over a little oil, season the truffles with salt, and only a little, and you will have one of the C/ie/s d' CEuvres of Paris. Mais Vert. No. i. (Green Maize.) This is one of the dishes I should above all like to see more popular in this country. The black Mexican sugar maize and the red Narragansett sugar maize are easily grown, and the gj^een ears are cooked in boiling water and salt, as we would prepare any other green vegetable. Cut the cobs in half or in four. Prepare a fine thick gravy, rich and brown ; season with pepper, salt, and a dust of cayenne; lay each quarter or half cob on toast. Pour the gravy over, and serve hot. Mais Vert, No. 2. Plain boil the cobs as above; quarter or halve according to size; lay on toast; cover with fine white sauce, and serve.HOTEL AND RESTAURANT COOKERY. 22^ Mais Vert. No. 3 Boil in salt and water; divide each cob into halves; dip in butter that has been melted, (oiled) place on a hot dish, and serve. Mais Vert a L*Inde. No. 4. Boil as for green peas; dip in butter; lay on a hot silver dish, and dust over with dry curry powder; or cover with curry sauce. L'Ecrevisse au vin de Champagne a la Beacons- field. (Crawfish in Champagne a la Beaconsfield.) Take a boiled crawfish, remove the head, split it down the back. Remove the meat, and cut into neat small cubes. Lay it in good champagne, sec. Bruise the yolk of a hardboiled egg in a mortar, with half an ounce of fresh butter, cayenne pepper, salt, and a dust of mace. Prepare round crutons of bread, (fried bread) cover with Pate' V Indienne, z. e. a mixture of chutney paste and curry. Put the crawfish, egg, &c., into a saucepan with the wine Saute, and when warm, but not boiling, prepare to serve. Place a little heap of fish and sauce on each ring of toast. Serve hot as a whet; or for a supper dish, serve in the shells, without the curry paste, and with fried crutons and lemon rings, and minced parsley as garnish. Les Huitres de Bengal. (Bengal Oysters.) Ingredients: Fresh eggs, pepper, salt, brown bread and butter, lemon.2 24 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. Take seven real scallop shells, very clean and well polish- ed. The under shell in each case, and if not procurable, use oyster or porcelain shells, open a fresh egg carefully, small eggs are best for this. Slip gently into the deep shell, and serve with pepper, salt, lemon rings, and thin brown bread and butter, for the men who do not quite understand whets. A favourite dish with Anglo-Indians. Andonilles a la Ude. (Chitterlings a la Ude.) Ingredients: Chitterlings, cream, toast, cayenne, salt, butter, olives. Take the boiled chitterlings, fry them and cut them in neat pieces, dust with cayenne and salt. Lay them on squares of trimmed buttered toast. Make a thick white scalded cream sauce, flavour with cayenne, pour over the chitterlings, garnish with olives, and serve as a whet. Saucisses Chaud (Devilled Sausage.) Ingredieitts : Sausage of pork or beef, properly the former, if for Jews the latter. Fried Crutons, Pate' 1' Indienne, (Edmund's Pentonville curry paste,) cayenne, lemon. First boil the sausages for quite an hour, slowly, carefully. Steam them if you have apparatus. Let them get quite cold, skin and slice in thin long strips, cut each slice in two. Have fried crutons or buttered toast, neatly cut into strips the length of half the sausage. Cover it well with curry paste, lay the sausage on this, cover with a thin coat- ing of mango chutney. Serve with lemon and fried parsley as garnish, either hot or cold. If hot, when dressed, all but the lemon put on the hot plate, or in an oven, with a bowl inverted, or cover till hot. Place the lemon on and serve.HOTJEL AND RESTAURANT COOKERY. 22^ Langue de Moutons Grillees. (Sheep's Tongues Grilled.) Ingredients: Sheep's tongues, spices, curry powder, mustard. Take either well boiled, or canned sheep's tongues. If the former, skin after well boiling—cut in thin slices; for this purpose I much prefer the canned, as they cut like pressed ox tongue. Mix pepper, salt and mustard, with a little curry powder to a batter, spread it over the tongue. Roll it up, fasten with a small silver skewer as large as a sewing needle, or a tiny wooden one. Wrap it in paper, grill and serve on toast or not, at pleasure. Samphire Marine, a la L. P. Montefiore. (The Montefiore Whet.) Ingredients: Samphire pickles, pickled eggs, tomatoes, oil, eggs, pepper, salt. Slice nice red tomatoes, not too ripe, or too large to be full of seeds. Lay a row on a flat Hors d' CEuvrer, next a row of minced samphire, then of sliced pickled eggs. They will look like walnut pickle, and the walnut is not a bad sub- stitute, when the eggs are not to be had. They make a nice contrast of colours, red, green, and deep brown. Pour over a salad sauce, of yolk of eggs, oil and pickle vinegar from the samphire—or it may be sent to table with vinegar only. Maquereau a V Italienne. (Mackerel, Italian Style ) Take the milt, or milt and roe of a fine mackerel; put them into a sauce-pan with enough water to cover them, a saltspoonful of salt, and a few drops of vinegar. Let them come slowly to the boil. Drain and put in a m.ortar, with o226 THE NEAV GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. half their weight of fresh butter; a teaspoonful of minced and scalded parsley; about six or eight drops of lemon juice, and J of the rind grated, cayenne pepper to taste. Spread on slices of German rye, (black) bread which has been buttered with fresh butter. Bloater Blossoms. See Harengs D' Hollande, (page 227). Legumes de Mer. (Dulse and Laver Bread.) These are just washed to free them from sand and grit, and served with vinegar, salt, and pepper. Like olives, they are rather an acquired taste. Anchovies. By the way, a word before I close relative to anchovies. The best are, in my opinion, for table purposes, those rolled and preserved in oil, they look neater, are more attractive in and out of bottle, whilst all I have used have been very good ; they are of French manufacture. Petit Pate de Langue. (Little Patty of Tongue.) Ingredients: Tongue, forcemeat of truffles, grated Ham- burg beef, eggs, pastry, spices, crumbs. Make a forcemeat, with plenty of hot spices, cut ox tongue in thin slices. Make little rolls 2 inches long. Fill them with forcemeat and fasten with a skewer. Brush over with egg, toss in crumbs and fry a golden brown. If served at this stage, they are A la Monarque, and they are dusted with dry curry and served. But if the paste is used, the skewer is withdrawn. The flaky paste rolled out quite thin, cut into 2^ inch lengths, the fried rolls laid on it, and it isHOTEL AND RESTAURANT COOKERY. 2 27 fastened up as for sausage rolls, brushed with egg once more, tossed in crumbs and fried. It is dusted with cayenne, and is called Bonne Bouche a la Diable. Harengs D'Hollande a la Republique. (Dutch Herrings Republic Fashion.) Ingredients: Dutch smoked herrings (these are not very salt), milk, vinegar, green peas, or scarlet runner beans, (red haricots), or lentils, parsley, onion, spice, mustard. The Dutch herring or Yarmouth ham dried, generally figures as a Hors d'CEuvres, but in France on maigre or fast days, it makes an excellent variety of entree. The first preparation is as for a Hors d'CEuvres, It is beheaded—the gut, roe, or melt removed. It is then washed and laid in a bath of equal parts, milk and water. This plumps it, and takes off any rank taste, or over abun- dance of salt. The roe and melt pounded in a mortar with butter cream, and cayenne, and spread on toast make the cele- brated relish of public, civic feasts in England, and vulgarly called by cooks, Bloater Blossoms." But to our fish. Have ready a quantity of dried green peas, or scarlet runner beans, baked in the oven in water and seasoned with onion, pepper, and salt. They are not steeped, but put into a jar, or an earthern marmite. When they are tender, make a puree, adding a little milk and spice to taste. Arrange as a wall round a dish. Cut the herrings in slices, say four pieces, removing the bone; broil, and dip for a minute after broiling in warm milk, place in the centre ; garnish with parsley, and serve, with vinegar and mustard sauce poured over. Pate de Poisson a la Kunst Verrin. (The Kunst Verrin Patty of Fish.) Ingredients: 8 ozs. of High dried roller flour, 2 table-2 28 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. spoonfuls of orange juice, 6 ozs. of butter, eggs, cold roast sturgeon, white wine, (niarsala) canned mushroom, pepper, salt, scalded cream, rice. Take 2 ozs. of butter, oil it in a warm pan, in a Bain Marie is best, then dredge in enough high dried roller flour, to make it into a very stiff paste, reduce the paste with orange juice, and the yolk of an egg. Stir with the spatula until the paste leaves the pan and spatula clear. Then spread it on a plate thinly, and let it cool. Roughly mince the fish—sprinkle a few drops of white wine on it, also pepper and salt, and one or two mushrooms chopped—Mix with the yolk of an egg. Take darole cases, work the paste with the fingers, and fit each darole case with a lining of paste, fill half way with the mixture, and the rest with scalded cream. Cover with paste, brush over with egg, bake and serve. By the way, in baking, place the cases on a bed of rice, (or charcoal) between it and the pan. 1 he rice will be useful after for Golden pilau," and is a useful kitchen store. This is a German recipe for which I am in- debted to Herr Stavenhagen, and is often used at the Im- perial and Prince Bismarck's tables* Croustades a la RoyaU (Royal Croustades.) Ingredients: Rasped French rolls, or stale bread, cold trout, or salmon, cornflour, milk, butter, pepper and salt, lemon, fennel or parsley. Cut a French roll into slices 1J inches thick, or cut a slice from a large white loaf the same depth. Take a paste cutter a size smaller than the roll, mark the top with a pointed knife, scoop out the contents so that a case is formed. If bread loaf is used, two cutters must be employed. Eight make a nice dish, using four for the base. When all theHOTEL AND RESTAURANT COOKERY. 229 cases are ready they should be fried in boiling fat till they are a nice golden brown; drain with the hollowside next to the paper. Remove cold trout or salmon from the bones, divest of the outer skin, cut into dice, season with pepper and salt, and a few drops of lemon. Three quarters fill the little cases, strew chopped fennel, (if liked) over the top, or parsley may be substituted. Make a cornflour sauce, fol- lowing the directions on the packet in preparation, only using one half the quantity of the flour to the milk men- tioned, beat in J oz. of butter to the pint of sauce, and salt after it is made, as the salt might turn the milk. Cover the top with this, being careful that none of it runs down the sides. Strew a ring of finely minced fennel or parsley be- tween the brown edge, and the white sauce as a garnish, and a very efl*ective and popular little Hor's d' CEuvres breakfast dish will be the result. For supper or wine parties, put plenty of cayenne amongst the fish—use stock in the sauce as well as milk or cream. It can then be eaten hot or cold, or sent as a Hors d' CEuvres as Truite en Casse, (Trout in Case.J Lamproies a la Naples. (Lampreys Neapolitan Style.) Ingredients: Lampreys brown bread crutons, red wine, oyster shells, a forcemeat of sorrel and fine herbs, butter, &c. Stew the lampreys after cleaning in red wine. Skin and make a puree of them, and mix with a forcemeat of fresh sorrel, fine herbs and butter, shape in the little shape like small plover egg cups. Lay a blanched oyster on each cruton, and the lamprey puree on the top.230 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. CHAPTER V. Fish Cooking. IT is a well known fact that the Jewish fried fish is the most celebrated in the world as being the most perfect style of frying known. There is nothing more disgusting than a greasy, dirty fish steak, fried as some English cooks profess to fry; with the white flesh of the fish struggling against the dirty brown fat. Fried fish has had a new era since the fish and batter shops, and potato chips made their appearance. The work of those emporiums would put to shame some of the so-called pro- fessional cooks—charlatans I call them. Who has not met with the sickly drab, bread-crumb and egg dressing, reeking with pork fat, that has never boiled but spluttered in the pan, fighting with adulterant water, and has been dished without draining, after soaking in tepid fat till the flesh is tender? The first general remark about fish, is that they should be perfectly fresh and undamaged by transport. Many of the large hotels and restaurants have fish tanks fitted up for carp, tench, &c., and they, like oysters and mus- sels, are fed for a few days before dressing. Fresh water fish take readily to a kind of German paste ball made of scalded white roll, pressed dry and mixed with linseed meal and common glucose honey. The second important item is the cooking. The fat must have ceased to make all noise and be perfectly boiling. Oil and fat are perfectly still and silent when at boiling point. This is the great mistake the unedu- cated or badly trained cooks make; they fancy as soon as the fat bubbles it must be boiling; they pop in the fish, and the whole thing is spoilt. The frying mediums are various. Oil attains_ the greatest degree of heat without burning, andHOTEL AND RESTAURANT COOKERY. 231 therefore as the Jews use oil, and that at about 350° to 400°, it is no wonder the fish are crisp and sweet outside and juicy inside. Pork fat ranks next, from the large quantity of oil it contains; beef-dripping next, and mutton fat last, Turbot a la Coleridge. (Turbot, Coleridge Fashion.) Ingredients: Turbot, clams, canned or fresh, scallops, white wine vinegar, oil, flour, egg, cayenne, cornflour, cream, milk, butter, chablis, pickled walnuts, parsley, salt. Take a sufficiently large fish kettle, or turbot pot, with strainer complete. It is a mistake to crush the fish into too small a vessel. Do not cut, hack, or slash the fish in any way. It will cook without cracking if properly handled, al- though we are aware very few cooks like the trouble or know the method. The practice of cutting, lets the best juices and flavour of the fish escape. Put in water enough to quite cover the fish, and a couple of tablespoonfuls of white wine vinegar, or lemon juice; this renders the skin elastic, also a little salt. When the water fairly boils, place the fish in, let it come up to boiling heat again ; skim, and then let the fish only simmer, as you would cook salt beef. Whilst this is cooking, prepare an oil (or oiled butter), flour, and tepid water batter with the yolk of an egg. Put the flour into a basin, about 2 tablespoonfuls will be enough ; drop in the yolk of an egg; then a tablespoonful of salad oil, (or butter oiled but not frothed); begin to mix the batter, adding tepid water till it is quite thick ; whip the white of the egg to a fine white foam, stir into the batter, which should drape from the spoon. Take a dozen scallops, or J dozen clams, trim, and wipe them dry; dip in the batter, and fry in boiling fat, also fry a good handful of picked, washed, and dried parsley. Mince the rest of the clams, or scallops; make a fine melted232 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. butter of milk, cornflour, and cream, with a lump of butter beaten in ; stir the minced fish, and keep both the fry and it hot. When the turbot is done, drain and slide it on to the dish, white side upwards; arrange the brown, fried clams, or scollops, on and round it, with fried parsley on the fried por- tion, and sprays of fennel or fresh parsley round the fish as decorations. Half walnuts taken from the pickle, also make the garnish more varied, and the pickle is liked by many per- sons with the fish. Serve the cream, butter sauce, and clams in a separate boat, and your dish will be perfection. To make the sauce first-rate, add a glass of chablis. Merlans Grilles a la Prince Imperial. (Whiting Grilled in the Prince Imperial Fashion.) Ligredients: Whiting, white pepper, salt, olive oil, cream or velvet sauce, capers, lemon, tomatoes, gherkins. When the young Prince was alive this was a very popular dish at Imperialists' houses, and now in many of the leading families and hotels in France the dish retains its name and prestige. After trimming, fasten into a roll and secure with a silver skewer. Steep in olive oil till just ready to serve, and grill; when grilling the greatest care is necessary in turning them, and also in dishing. Have ready a rich white cream or velvet sauce, with chopped capers stirred in. Have slices of lemon semi-quartered, and half rings of a small tomato, that is red, but not over ripe. Cut to match the lemon. Lift the fish ; dust wdth salt and pepper mixed in a small castor, on both sides; lay neatly on centre of a dish; cover with the sauce; place the tomatoes and lemon alternately round, >vith a bright but small gherkin between. Serve hot,HOTEL AND RESTAURANT COOKERY. 233 Soles a la Napoleon III. (Soles in Napoleon 3rd's Fashion.) Ingredients: Soles, or fine small plaice, or whitings, vine leaves, bay leaves, lemon juice, pepper, salt, tomatoes, parsley. Take off the black skin from either of the two first named fish, or trim the fins of the latter. Cut into long thin fillets, wash them, wipe them dry on a fish cloth. Then with the right hand, wind each fillet round the 2 forefingers of the left hand, keeping one end fixed by the thumb, slip the other end under and bring it over, as if the first tie of a cravat or handkerchief round your neck. It makes a cone, broad at the base, narrow at the top; place this in a greased tin, with a slice of tomato under, and a vine leaf over—and so on till the set of fillets are dressed. Make a sauce of fish stock from the bones, lemon juice, salt and pepper, and pour round. Add a couple of bay leaves. Place in the oven for 10 minutes. Transfer the slice of tomato, and its corresponding fillet with a slice, to a hot dish. Have ready, scalded parsley wrung dry and minced very fine, put a tiny spec on each little white mound, and round the base on the red tomato, strain the sauce and pour round it. This is a very simple, but a very elegant and tasty dish, excellent in cases of kidney disease, or diabetes, where rich dressings and vinegar are tabooed. Turbot Au Gratin. (Turbot with Crumbs.) Ingredients: Turbot, finely sifted white bread crumbs, Bechamel sauce, lemons, water-cress, Parmesan cheese grated, pepper, salt, &c. Divide with a sharp knife, the remains of cold turbot, and234 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. lift off the bones, lay on a dish with some fish stock made from the bones and rough pieces. Have ready sufficient Bechamel sauce to cover it. Lay the pieces on the dish in which it is to be served, and see that it is quite hot. Pour the sauce over, then strew bread crumbs* that have been seasoned to taste, with red or white pepper. On the top dust Parmesan cheese. Brown with the salamander, or in front of the fire. Serve very hot, garnished with water-cress. Turbot a la Prince. (The Prince's Turbot.) Ingredients t Turbot, lobster, and coral, oysters, fennel, white sauce. Boil the turbot as in the first receipt (page 23L) Have ready a cardboard cross of Maltese pattern, of course a hollow frame of the board. Fry the oysters as directed for the clams in batter and drain. Place the cross on the hot fish, strew the coral carefully on the enclosure. Have the lobster flesh cut into neat dice, and rechauffed in fish stock. Pile them in neat little heaps round the turbot, cover each heap with the Bechamel sauce, place a fried oyster between the heaps, and fennel sprays on the white mounds, and between the fish. Esturgeon a la Roi. (Sturgeon in the King's Mode.) Ingredients: Sturgeon, vinegar, oil, white wine, (Sauterne) bacon fat for larding, lobster, eggs, truffles, butter, fine sifted brown raspings, cranberries. For sauce, see Sauce a la Roi. Take handsome cutlets of sturgeon, and cutting bacon into strips, lard the upper side of the thick cutlet with a fine needle in a delicate pattern. This is a Panish dish, \HOTEL AND RESTAURANT COOKERY. 235 saw in Sept. 1883. The pattern was a crown. Next lay it in a marinade of equal parts; oil, vinegar and white wine, (not a sweet wine, remember.) Steam the cutlet or cutlets, and prepare a lobster forcemeat of truffles, butter, the yolk of an egg and seasonings. Beat it, and keep it warm by placing on the hot plate. When the fish will readily leave the centre bone it is done, lift it out, remove the bone and fill up the space with the forcemeat, put it into the oven or over the steamer, till the salamander is heated. Prepare for each cutlet a frill of fringed white paper, as for cakes. Brown the piquees; gum, or fasten the frill round with white of egg. Strew cranberries in between the piquees. Lift carefully on to the dish, and serve with sprays of fennel, parsley, or some such garnish round. Perch a la Graham. (Perch, Graham Style.) Ingredients: Perch, veal stuffing, (thyme, marjoram,) lemon rind, lamb or mutton kidney suet, fine sifted bread crumbs, pepper, salt, bind with an egg—curry powder, bacon —mango chutney. This is one of the latest fish dressings—Take fair sized perch, clean them through the gills—wipe them out and trim. Then cut bacon into fine strips, suitable for a fine needle, and lard the back of the fish, but not too thickly. Next make a veal stuffing, adding to the usual ingredients, a tablespoonful of curry powder. It can now be either grilled or baked. In the first place if grilled, wrap in a proper grill paper. If to be baked, put in one of the fashionable little paper boats for baking fish. A clever cook can make them at home. See that the piquees are nicely browned in the latter case. Serve with mango chutney, and Sauce dea Soldats. (See page 411 )236 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. Maqureau a la Temple. (Mackarel in the Temple Style.) Ingredients: Mackarel, chestnuts, canned button mush- rooms, yolk of hard boiled egg, 2 quarts of sorrel, butter, pepper, salt, fennel, and parsley, white stock. Take a fine well grown, but not too gross fish, split it down the back, after removing the head. Bone the fish, remove the soft roe or melt, and wipe it quite clean. Have ready a stuffing made of chestnuts, (or if out of season, vienna bread crumbs and potatoe in equal parts) roasted, peeled from the outer and inner skin, and bruised in a mortar, or passed through a wire sieve. Next mix it with a piece of butter as large as a walnut, two or three button mushrooms, and the yolk of a hard boiled egg, season with pepper and salt, add a dessert spoonful each of minced fennel and parsley, the latter scalded and wrung dry. Lay this stuffing in the belly of the fish, and close it together. It is much nicer than the rude method of stitching up the fish with needle and thread. I imagine the delight of the carver, when impeded by a white cotton thread! The pleasure of the guest who is bound by etiquette to swallow a piece of pack thread !! But such is untutored ** High Art below Stairs.'* Now lay the fish on a baking tray; pour a little white stock round, cover with a buttered paper, and bake till well cooked. In the meantime cook the sorrel, drain and chop fine, (the liquor can go into the stock pot, it makes it sharp and fresh.) Mince the sorrel, season with pepper and salt. Saute in butter, and make a bed of it on a dish. Lay the cooked fish on this, and cover with rich brown sauce. Serve with Temple Sauce (see page 411.) in a separate tureen. This is made from the milt, &c., which should be reserved for the purpose. Or if material for Hor'sHOTEL AND RESTAURANT COOKERY. 237 d* CEuvres runs short, this can be used, and is called maqureau a r Italienne, and served between slices of rye bread and butter, highly spiced with cayenne. Skate a la Czarina* (The Czarina Skate Dressing.) Ingredients: Skate, (crimped) canned macedoine of vege- tables, mushrooms pickled, tartare sauce—Fish stock, or veal stock, vinegar, salt. This is a Russian dish, and much liked in court circles.— Cut the skate into 2^ inch widths, skin it on both sides. Then roll them up and bind round with tapes as tightly as possible. Stew either in fish or white stock, with a little salt. When cooked let it stay some three or four minutss in the stock. Open a tin of macedoine, and place just inside the oven to warm, with the top of the can off. Next when warm, put them into a sieve and pour over them salted boiling water, drain. Now place the skate on the silver dish to serve. Arrange the macedoine round each ring of skate, and 2 or 3 button mushrooms in the centre of the ring, pour a tartare sauce with capers over and serve hot or cold* Souchy de T Eau. (Water Souchy.) Ingredients: Fish stock from fillet bones, &c., any small firh—more properly flounders, small soles, &c. Parsley, pepper, salt, brown bread and butter. This dish comes properly under the head of fish cookery; although many introduce it into the soup manufactures. Choose small fish but adhere to one kind, fresh water or salt. If soles, plaice, or flounders, skin them as you would the other fish used for this purpose. The practice 1 have238 THE iSTEW GtriM FOR HOTELS, ETC. noticed in some restaurants lately of leaving both black and white skins on, is to be deprecated. The argument is, the soup is stronger.—Well why not make fish stock and re- duce it to a well salted glaze, if more than is necessary for present use is made ? The eye has to be pleased as well as the stomach, therefore skin the fish, cut into neat 2 inch pieces, after cleaning and washing. Make stock from the bones of filleted fish. If there are none, use white stock or soaked gelatine, and add to the soup to strengthen the quality of the liquor. Stew the fish in this with half a teacupful of parsley. Place a tablespoonful of minced parsley in the tureen. When the fish is tender, taste to see if there is pepper and salt enough, if not add it. Then pour it into the tureen. There should not be too much liquid. I have seen water souchy spoilt in this way. The proper accom- paniment is thin brown or rye bread and butter. Saumon a la Berwick Sur Tweed. (Salmon, Berwick-on-Tweed Style.) Ingredients: Salmon crimped, salt. Put a crimped salmon into salt and water that is boiling in a large fish kettle, let it hoil one minute for every half pound weight. Drain and serve au naturel with green peas or sliced cucumber, as an accompaniment. Truite a la Genevoise. (Geneva Trout.) Ingredients: Pair of fine fresh trout, champagne, thyme, parsley, shalot, cloves, pepper, salt, butter, browned flour, brown raspings, (by some, German rye bread or rusks grated, are preferred,) fried crutons, lemon rings. Having cleaned and prepared the fish. Lay them in aHOTEL AND RESTAURANT COOKERY. 2^9 stewpan with 1 pint of white stock, or plain water; a small quantity of parsley, thyme, and half a shalot, 6 cloves, 6 whole peppers, salt. Stew till the fish are done. Then lay them on the dish you intend to serve them in. Strain the liquor, have ready a brown roux of baked brown flour and butter. Quantities 1 oz. of butter, 1 tablespoonful of flour, add the strained stocks, and also a tablespoonful or more of brown bread raspings, or grated rusk. Lift the sauce when it has boiled to the edge of the stove, or lower the gas, so as to reduce the temperature. Throw in a glass of cooking champagne, stir round so that it may mix thoroughly, and pour it round the fish. It is a mistake to put it in with the fish, as the bouquet and spirit both evaporate. If you wish the fish to have a distinct flavour of champagne, add a table- spoonful of elderflower water to the stock. Jack Pike, to Bake. Ingredients: Pike, bread crumbs sifted, \ lb. of suet, lemon rind, 2 eggs, thyme, knotted marjoram, bay leaf, pepper, salt, vinegar, red wine, (catalana, or mock port) Worcestershire sauce, or Yorkshire relish; Fresh water mussels, white sauce, stock, cloves. Wash the fish and cleanse it thoroughly. Pour a little hoil- ing water down the inside if it is necessary, to remove the film attached to and lining the belly. In taking out the entrails be most careful not to burst or roughly handle so as to break them, or the earthy taste will be more perceptible than pleasant. Soak for 1 hour in salt water and vinegar, whilst the stuffing is prepared. Mince the suet, sift white bread crumbs, mince parsley, thyme, &c. And grate the lemon rind, (or boil and pound it, using the liquor when cold in the mixing,) use pepper and salt, in fact make a goodly quantity of veal stuffing, moisten with the eggs—then240 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC* lift the Jack Pike out of the water. Dry it, and proceed to stuff* Secure it with silver skewers. Lay it in a deep dish in good stock, in which are herbs, and a piece of lemon rind about 2 inches square, cloves and about 3 or 4 bay leaves. Baste it frequently for the hour it is cooking, and when it is done, transfer on to a hot silver dish, brush rapidly over with egg, strew brown crumbs (raspings) over, and return to the oven for a minute, whilst you strain the stock, add a glass of red sweet wine, heat, (not boil J just for a second or so, in a small pan, and pour round the fish. Serve with freshwater mussels in white sauce, (see Mussel Sauce, page 413,) This receipt was given to me by the late Hon. Grantley F. Berkeley, then of Alderaey Manor, Poole, and has figured during the last season at several large con- servative dinners. Rouget a la Wolseley. (Red Mullet in the Lord Wolseley Style.) Ingredients: French roll bread, red mullet, sauces, brown flour, essence of anchovies, caper, vinegar. Wash the fish clean, but do not take out the entrails. Prepare Bateaux de Nile, as they are fashionably styled, i. e. Take yard long French rolls, rasp them and divide into lengths J an inch longer than the fish. Cut out the crumb carefully, so as not to pierce the crust. Fry them, making them brown inside and out, and leave them to drain. Wrap the fish in oiled papers, and bake or broil. Prepare a sauce with essence of anchovies, soy, and one or two sauces, such as Worcester, &c. Making a brown roux of butter, and baked brown flour, moistening with stock, adding the liquor found in the oiled paper after broiling. Place each fish in its own little boat. Pour the sauce a little over each, garnish with parsley, and serve hot.HOTEL AND RESTAURANT COOKERY. 24! V Anguille a V Italienne. (Eels, Italian Mode.) Ingredients: Conger eel, cockles, oil, vinegar, salt, red wine, (claret, or common vin rouge,) macaroni, fish stock, sorrel, spices. Wash 2 lbs. of conger eel quite clean, remove the black film in the open by rubbing with salt and water, then transfer to a marinade of oil and vinegar, this takes off the strong taste. After an hour put it into a fish stewpan, with either fish stock or water, 1 pint, red wine ^ pint, 2 dozen cockles, and plenty of black pepper and sweet spices whole. Stew for about three quarters of an hour. Have ready a fine bed of macaroni, nicely cooked and drained. Also some sorrel sauce (sheep sorrel) stewed, lay the fish in two halves having removed the skin and bone, reduce the stock by rapid boiling, with the lid off till there is | pint. Strain, pour over the fish and macaroni. Serve at once with white sauce in a separate vessel, and the cockles laid round the fish as a garnish in little clusters. Saumon a U Humbert. (Salmon, King Humbert Style.) Ingredients: Salmon, oil, spices, salad. Take enough fresh olive oil to cover a good thick salmon steak. Put it into an earthen pot with cloves, dry bay leaves, mace, cardamum and coriander seeds, a little salt, and 1 dozen whole black peppers, bake the oil or boil it over a charcoal fire for an hour to extract the spice flavours, then let it get nearly cold, and strain on to the salmon in a baking dish. See that it covers the fish. Place it in a slow oven, or cover down and place on the top of a charcoal arrange- ment. Simmer in the oil for half an hour to three quarters,THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. according to the thickness of the steak. Let it, when cooked, get quite cold. Remove carefully to a circular entree dish. Pour the oil over, set the dish on a large flat dish, and garnish with blanched dandelion, lettuce hearts, and wood sorrel salad. Cabillaud a V Ecossaise. (Cod in the Scotch Style.) Ingredients: Cod's head and shoulders, or small cod, suet, oatmeal, pepper and salt, melted butter, or butter and parsley sauces if liked. Wash the fish clean, soak the oatmeal in water seasoned with pepper and salt, for half an hour. The oatmeal must be coarse Scotch, and freshly ground—If the freshness is doubted lay it on a baking tray in the oven for 15 minutes before soaking. If not too far gone and bitter, this generally restores it. Stuff the fish, wrap it in a clean napkin and boil or steam. Some persons add minced suet; others a leek or onion, but I prefer the plain oatmeal dressing of the fisher wife. Les Barbues a la Newhaven. (Newhaven Flounders.) Ingredients: Flounders, oatmeal, pepper, salt, parsley, egg, flour. Clean the fish and wipe quite dry, dip each in a little flour seasoned with pepper and salt; brush over with egg, and strew coarse Scotch meal over, egg once more and repeat the operation, fry in boiling fat, serve with fried parsley. This I found one of the most delicious dishes at the celebrated fish dinners at Newhaven, near Edinbugh, in 1884. Try it as a breakfast dish.tlOTEL AND RESTAURANT COOKERY. ^43 Shad a V Atnericaine. (Shad as in America.) Ingredients: Shad, bread crumbs, butter, pepper, cayenne, 1 egg, fish stock, sliced potatoes. Well clean the fish, clean it carefully through the gills, wipe out thoroughly and rinse in plenty of water. Make a stuffing of white sifted crumbs worked up with an ounce of butter seasoned with pepper and salt, moisten with an egg after the butter and pepper and salt are well worked in. Stuff the fish through the gills. Lay in a baking dish slices of potatoes. Rest the fish on them, and keep it in position by putting slices at either side to fill up. Pour in about a pint of fish, or white stock, cover with a buttered paper and serve. See that the stock is nicely seasoned so as to flavour the potatoes. This is a favourite dish at the Contin- ental Hotel, Philadelphia. The proper sauce is to thicken some brown stock with baked brown flour, (adding sauce at will) also a glass of red wine. It can either be poured round the fish over the potatoes, or served in a separate boat. Huitres a la Delminico. (Oysters, Delmonico Style.) Ingredients: Oysters, butter, lemon, corn flour, cream, yolk of egg. Open a dozen bluepoints and save the liquor, strain the latter. Lay the oysters in a silver bowl or small, deep, entree dish. Take 1 oz. of sweet fresh butter, work into it over the fire, a dessertspoonful of cornflour; then add a tea- cupful (i pint) of thick cream; working it in by degrees over a slow flame; let it cook a little, and if too thick add a little oyster liquor. Next add the yolk of an egg. After which it244 THE KEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. must not boil again. Drop in a teaspoonful of lemon juice, stir rapidly, and pour as hot as possible on the oysters. Huitres a L' Americaine. (Oyster Stew.) Ingredients: Oysters, pepper, salt, milk. This is a favourite, popular American dish, met with every- where, and every bar-tender knows how to prepare it, but guards the secret from the ** Foreigner," i, e.y inquisitive English or French traveller, or recent settler. Never open the oysters till the order is given for the stew. The milk must be ready in a jug, and standing on the hot plate ; open the shells quickly, pop the oysters into a saucepan with their own liquor, salt, and pepper. Stew them one minute and a half, put into a soup plate and add the milk. I have met with the milk slightly thickened with cornflour, and this was where the sale was not quick, and the milk might turn.HOTEL AND RESTAURANT COOKERY. 245 ELEVES are for the most part boiled or braised, and iV embrace such dishes as chicken, boiled and served with peas, cauliflower, macedoines, &c. York hams and tongues; chevaux de frieze lamb; boned turkey, fowls, &c. It is not my intention to give the receipts which can be culled from any ordinary cookery-book, but to give, as it were, a supple- ment to the Chef and dinner-giver, who may require new and fashionable dishes, and may not be in the way of running round the clubs, to gather in the new styles. One of the latest fashions is :— Tete de Veau a la Duchesse d'Albany. Ingredients: Calf's head, lean boiled ham, veal forcemeat, hard boiled eggs, truffles, cowslip wine, sauce jaune, ham and veal forcemeat balls, thirty-two in number, ^ pint mashed potatoe, J pint mashed carrot, i pint mashed green peas, i. e.^ puree of each, egg, white sifted crumbs, button mushrooms. Bone the head, lay the skin next the board, cover it over with delicate slices of boiled ham. If raw ham is used the saltpetre or acetic acid frequently turns the lean of other meats cooked with it a violent red. ** Sugar hams" are best if raw is used, and then they ought to steep in hot water for half an hour before being laid on. When covered by the ham, lay 2 inches of veal and truffle forcemeat over, and then slices of ham again. Roll up, fasten with a silver skewer, wrap in a clean white boiling cloth ; tie with flat tape, so that no ridges appear on it after dishing. Put the bones into some good white stock, let it come quite to the boil, and then CHAPTER VI. Releves. (Calf's Head, Duchess of Albany's Style.) i24-6 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. put in the boned calf's head. Stew it gently for six hours, keeping it covered with stock, which must be warm when added. Prepare a ham and veal forcemeat, and form it into 32 balls as large as boys* glass alleys; dip them in egg, and poach them. Of course the Chef will know that the force- meat will have to be mixed with a beaten egg. When they are done, drain them, and keep them hot. Have boiled ; red carrots, green peas, and potato pulped through a wire sieve, each separate and distinct; mix them with butter, pepper, and salt; cover J of the balls with a coating of green pea puree, J with carrot, J with potato. Put them on the hot plate with a basin over to get thoroughly warm; egg and bread crumb the remaining 8 and fry in boiling fat, till of a rich brown. To serve the head, take it out of the pan, and dip for a second in cold water. Take off the cloth. Lay it on the dish it is to be served on, leaving the skewer in. Pour a rich sauce jaune over. Pile the balls thus, 4 brown with a white ball on the top; 4 green with a yellow on the top ; 4 white with a brown, and so on round the head. Heat some button mushrooms (canned or bottled); strew them in be- tween. Pour thick brown gravy amongst them, and serve hot. This was a most elegant recherche dish at a large Con- servative banquet in the spring, 1885. Aloyau a la Marlboro' House. (Sirloin, Marlboro* House Style.) Ingredients: A small boned sirloin of beef, cloves, peppers, allspice, bouquet de fines, herbs, shalot, white wine (Marsala) brown stock, gelatine, or brown glaze, fbj sweetbreads, bottoms of artichokes, or asparagus, peas, champignons. Take off the outer skin and some fat, if there is too great a depth from the sirloin. Cut away the meat under the bonesHOTEL AND RESTAURANT COOKERY. 247 and s iw off the heavy bone from the bottom of the ribs. In the fat, stick cloves, allspice, and long peppers in patterns, not too thickly however. Put them in firmly; there should only be a thin coating of fat on the top of the joint. Braise in the usual way with a bunch of sweet herbs and a bayleaf, a quart of good stock, and a gill (i pint,) of Marsala. When quite done (which depends on weight), put brown glaze or soaked gelatine to the stock in the braising pan, after remov- ing the oil and grease. Reduce, and when thick and like golden syrup, pour over the braise so as to glaze the whole. Have ready (h.) a bed of minced sweetbreads, stewed with artichoke bottoms, or asparagus, peas, and champignons ; lay the sirloin on this and serve. N.B. The remains of cold sirloin can be trimmed and re- chauffed in this manner as a releve. Gigot de Mouton a la Johnston Robertson. (Leg of Mutton in the Johnston Robertson Style.) Ingredients: Leg of mutton boned, ground spices, oat- meal, suet, fine herbs, onion, bay leaf, carrots, turnip, leek, champignons, good stock and glaze, puree of haricot beans, broad, or Windsor beans blanched, butter, pepper, salt. Take a small leg of Welsh mutton, bone, leaving however, the knuckle attached. Prepare the following stuffing, 1 tablespoonful of fine herbs in powder, finely minced parsley, suet, about 2 ozs. and 2 ozs. of medium ground Aberdeen oatmeal, season with black pepper, salt, and a suspicion (no more) of mace; mix these together in a dry state, moisten with white stock, just covering the oatmeal, (about J of a pint.) Then add a raw egg, (or it is very fair without,) mix up and stuff the leg. Skewer round the shank, make a bed in the braisiere, of sliced carrots, turnips, leeks, champignons, and a small piece of butter. Add some stock.248 THE NEAV GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. cover the mutton after it is laid in with a piece of buttered paper, and then braise. When it is done, reduce the stock after straining and adding glaze if wanted. Make a puree of the vegetables, add them to some rich brown gravy, and serve round the braise. Mix the white haricot bean, or blanched broad Windsor bean puree, with pepper, salt and butter, shape in a plover egg cup and put them point up- wards round the braise. This dish was invented for and dedicated to a lady member of the Balloon Society. Filet de Pore a la Chasseur. (Fillet of Pork in the Hunter's Style.) Take a fillet from the leg weighing about 4 to 5 lbs. When boned, fill the place with lean pork, and sprinkle with salt on both sides, and leave it about 2 hours. Trim it, and score in rings very nicely, wipe it dry, and lard with strips of smoked bacon fat, using a large needle for the purpose. Put it to brown in a braising pan, with slices of bacon fat, carrots, onions, bouquet of sweet herbs. When brown, moisten with good brown stock, and a glass of good sour white wine, or a tablespoonful of spiced white wine vinegar. When the meat is sufficiently cooked, drain it. Strain off the liquor from the vegetables. Add gelatine and colouring, if necessary, reduce the stock by rapid boiling till it is thick like honey. Pour over the meat and serve. The vegetables may go into the vegetable, or brown stock pot. Filet de Pore a la Marechale. (The Marshal's Fillet of Pork.) Take half a leg of young pork, not too fat. The fillet end of course must be used. Bone it and then score length- wise, giving rather deeper incisions than is usual in scoring.HOTEL AND RESTAURANT COOKERY. 249 Lard the lean of the meat, with large piquees of smoked bacon fat, on top and bottom of joint. Then mince very finely about a i pint measure each, when minced of the following herbs, &c., parsley, lemon thyme, sage, Spanish onion, and 1 tablespoonful each of basil, chervil, marjorrm, thyme, mushrooms, black pepper and salt; also a grate of nutmeg, and a dust of celery salt. Mix all well together with a raw egg or two. Then stuff, first, where the bone has been removed ; second, well down between the scores. Tie it up in a cloth and plunge into boiling water for quarter of an hour. Then remove and braise in the ordinary way. This sets the egg stuffing, and keeps it in place. Or it makes a very good, but rougher dish, if baked in the oven, but has neither the piquant delicacy of a braise, or its elegant appearance. Serve with red gooseberry sauce, made as apple sauce, using gooseberries in place of the other fruit. Red wine should be used with this braise, and laurel leaves in place of bay, with the sweet herbs. Culotte de Bceuf Braise a la Royale. (Braised Rump of Beef.) Take a fine round of beef; piquez it very finely top and bottom ; the former in a distinct and tasteful pattern, using a fine needle. See that the joint is well trimmed, stands nice- ly, and is of good shape. Cut thin slices of veal, lean ham, and fat bacon; line the bottom of the braising pan with vegetables and the sides with the meat. Lay in the joint carefully; put one or two onions stuck with cloves, with the vegetables, which should all be neatly sliced. Cover for about 2 inches with rich stock. Put it all on the fire and let it boil; skim off grey froth that may rise ; then salt and sea- son the liquor, and let it stew for 5 or 6 hours, with charcoal on the top as well as under. Then lift out the culoite.250 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. Reduce and strengthen the gravy, after straining. Take ofif all oil or grease. Then put back the culotte to rechauffe and colour. It should be a tempting brown colour, like a chest- nut. Lift it on to a hot dish when warmed through. Use the salamander if the piquees are not brown enough. Pour the glaze over the meat so that it is entirely covered in the shining-brown gravy, and serve quickly. Entrecote de Rosbif. (Sirloin of Roast Beef.) Have a clear bright fire; when fresh coal and coke are re- quired, feed from the hack, so as to keep the bright, burning, red fire well to the front of the grate. Make the hastener and gravy pan perfectly hot, have a quantity of hot dripping in the well of the pan, then **spit** or "jack" the meat. Cover with the hot dripping and let it be close to the fire for the first 10 to 15 minutes. Keep it constantly basted, so that whilst closing the pores of the flesh the fire may not scorch or burn the meat and yet so cook it that the juices are kept within the joint and not lost in the gravy pan. Draw back the joint 10 to 15 inches, according to the strength and power of the fire, and allow one quarter of an hour from this time till dishing. Keep the sirloin regularly and well basted, for on the strict attention to this simple and seemingly tri- vial task depends the success of the joint, its outer crispness and inside tender, juicy, qualities. In no part must the joint be burnt, the fat a golden maise, or Indian corn brown colour, the lean and bone a fine chestnut. The gravy must be made of dear brown stock, Liebig's beef-tea if no other is at hand. Pour the gravy I'ound, never over the joint. If colour is wanted for the gravy, use caramel (see p. 12 and 52). To Serve'. Decorate with scraped horseradish, and horse- radish sauce No. 3. (page 414) whether hot or cold. If cold, steep half the horseradish in red cabbage or beetroot vinegar till it is a fine pink, drain and alternate the heaps of white and red, placing watercress or parsley between.HOTEL AND RESTAURANT COOKERY. 251 CHAPTER VII. Entrees. AS the new entrees arranged and invented during the last three years, are more numerous than the subjects of the preceding chapters, I shall make no hesitation about entering on them at once;— Entree de Poulet a la Beaconsfield. (Beaconsfield Entree of Chicken.) Ingredients: Cold chicken, ham, truffles, or mushrooms, cream, butter, cerealine, (cooked hominey) flour, Spinach- juice, milk, primroses. Mince equal parts of chicken and lean ham, sufficient for the dish you intend to prepare. Do not mash the meat, but cut it into small pieces, as large as an orange pip each. Add a few small mushrooms, or truffles, minced, also pepper and salt to taste, and a breakfast cupful of scalded cream to each 1 lb. of the mince. Take a piece of butter as large as a walnut, and work into i a tablespoonful of flour. Put the whole of this into an enamelled saucepan, simmer for 3 or 4 minutes, stirring the whole time, then draw to one side and keep hot whilst you prepare the cerealine. Take a breakfast cup of feathery white cooked hominey. Have a pint of milk boiling in a saucepan, and as it boils let the cerealine pour in a thin stream into the milk, stirring the whole time. Season with salt before it thickens, then allow it to boil for one minute to take off the raw taste, this is all the preparation it requires in cooking. It looks very like rice when cooked. Have ready \ a teacupful of Spinach-juice, stir it into the cooked cerealine just as you are taking it off the fire.252 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. Make a wall of this round a small entree dish. Pour the meat and cream into the centre. Decorate the wall here and there with fine fresh primrose flowers, to resemble a green bank with flowers. Beaconsfield Entree. No. 2. Ingredients: Spring chicken, truffles, (or button mush- rooms,) cerealine, marjoram, basil, chervil, brown stock, milk, cream, pepper, salt, primroses, flour, bay leaves. Cut a tender chicken into neat joints; dip into well seasoned flour, and fry a delicate brown. Stew slowly in well flavoured brown stock, with herbs,—marjoram, basil, chervil, and a bay leaf. Also a few button mushrooms. The herbs should be formed into a bunch and tied round. Skim the fat off carefully from time to time. Prepare the cerealine (a kind of prepared wliile corn used instead of rice,) say 2 ozs. Put the cerealine into a sauce- pan, pour boiling milk on it, and commence to stir. Do not make it too moist. Three minutes boiling will suffice to cook it. Lift it off the fire, season with pepper (white) and salt, and add a tablespoonful of cream. Put this round the entree dish, smooth with a knife dipped in hot water. Lay the slices of fowl in the centre, pour the rich brown gravy over, arrange mushrooms amongst the pieces on the top. Put a few primroses round the dish, and serve hot. The Lord Wolsely of Cairo Entree. Invented by Corden Bleu. Named after and dedicated to The Brave General by his Lordship's special per- mission. Ingredients: Red Egyptian lentils, fillets of veal or beef, 2 hard boiled eggs, 2 raw eggs, white stock, rich brownHOTEL AND RESTAURANT COOKERY. ^53 Stock, French roll, stale; tongue, chicken, herbs, truffles, &c., for forcemeat, baked flour, endive, watercress, spices, pepper, red and white, nutmeg, bread crumbs, glaze, cream. 1st. Cut or carve with a penknife a crown with a Maltese cross on the top, using stale French roll, or Vienna bread for the purpose. Cut also 8 or 10 rings of bread the thick- ness of two penny pieces laid one on the other, and about 2 inches in diameter. Cut a square hole in the centre, and a piece off the bottom of each ring that it may stand up—also 6 or 8 strips of bread that will join the two rings when cooked, and make them look like carriage wheels.—• The centre of the rings of bread should be large enough to let the strips pass through. Fry all these in very hot fat till they are quite a chestnut brown—drain and stand up- right, so that they may keep crisp. 2nd. Take of fillet of veal (or beefsteak) sufficient to make 5, 7, or 9 rolls, (like Olives,) according to the number of guests to provide for. Let each roll be 3^ to 4 inches long, and 2J to 3 inches wide. Mix in a mortar the yolks of the 2 hard boiled eggs, with pepper, salt, a little Basil, moisten with raw egg, and spread the paste over the inside of the meat. Then roll it up olive fashion somewhat, one end being narrower however, so as to shape like a cannon, fasten each with tiny little silver skewerlets. See that the yolk is so disposed, that when trimmed the roll shall show the yellow like bright gun metal inside. If you have no small silver skewers use 3 wooden ones to each roll. Stew carefully in rich brown stock with truffles till quite tender. 3rd. Wash and pick i to f lbs. of red Egyptian lentils. Boil them in good veal, chicken, or other white meat stock, for about an hour. See that there are enough to make a band round the dish about IJ inches wide, round the edge— These are to represent sand. The lentils should be dry, not sloppy or mabhed.^54 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, EtC. 4th. Make about 2 doz. forcemeat balls of grated ham and chicken, passed through a mincer, and afterwards pounded in a mortar, with spices, cream, and a portion of raw egg, some truffles, and sweet herbs. Mix in a small quantity of sifted crumbs. Season with pepper, salt, cayenne and nutmeg. Form into little balls, brush over with egg, roll in crumbs, and fry in boiling fat. Drain on 2 papers, and keep hot. To serve. Melt some glaze and keep it liquid. Lift out the rolls of veal, trim the narrow end, by cutting off a small portion so as to leave the yolk visible. Make the band of lentils round the dish. Take the strips of bread and fix into the wheels, putting the cut portions of the circle oppo- site each other to make the tiny gun carriage. Say there are four guns to mount, place them round. Take the rolls, lay them with the heavy^ends resting together in the centre of the entree dish, and the narrow ends with the yolk of egg inside pointing .^towards the outer edge. As soon as mounted, brush each gun over with glaze, so as to look bright. Thicken the gravy in which the cannon were stewed, with flour baked a fawn colour in the oven, pour it round and under the cannon. Fix groups of balls at the right hand of each cannon. Three for the base and one on the top. Rest the crown on the breech portion, i. e., the ends of the rolls converging towards the centre. Warm on the hot plate and serve. La Pluie d'Or Entree. (Shower of Gold Entree.) Ingredients: Cold ham, fowl, tongue, or game, hard boiled eggs, mixed herbs, pepper, salt, cayenne, lemon, raw egg,HOTEL AND RESTAURANT COOKERY. 255 baked flour, cock's combs, cochineal, port wine, water-cress, stock. Make a mince of ham, fowl, or game; season with pepper, salt, mixed herbs; put into a saucepan ; moisten with good stock, and a drop of caramel to make it look rich and brown. Drop in a raw egg and stir till the whole becomes a mass; place the mince in an entree dish; pour over a good gravy thickened with brown baked flour. Pass the yolks of 2 hard boiled eggs through a wire sieve on to a plate, and from the point of a broad-bladed knife strew over the top of the dish, so as to look like a shower of gold. Have the cock's combs boiled in a little cochineal to make them nice and red ; lay 7 or 8 artistically round the dish, with water-cress and quar- tered rings of lemon between. N.B. The whites of the hard boiled eggs can be handed over to the salad dresser; do not waste them. Mutton a la Prince de Galle. (Mutton in Mode "Prince of Wales.") Ingredients: Shoulder of mutton, vinegar, vin rouge (claret), olive oil, spices, herbs, stock, champignons, carrot, turnip., leek, gelatine, salt, pepper, parsley. Bone a shoulder of mutton, and lay in the following pickle for 24 hours, viz.: Quarter pint of white wine vinegar, half pint of cooking claret, 2 tablespoonfuls salad oil, 1 dozen each of bruised cloves, coriander seeds, cardamum, allspice, and long peppers. In the meantime stew the bones in two quarts of common stock for about six hours, till all the good is out of them, and the stock about 1 quart. The bones will be a dull yellow brown, when cooked, nothing but the earthy matter left. Put the stock in a shallow dish to cool, and take off" the fat. When ready to cook, lift the meat out of the pickle, rollTHE NEW GIjIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. and skewer it. Stew in the stock in which the bones were cooked, adding rings of carrot, a very little piece of turnip, 2 inches square, and a leek cut in four, lengthwise, and care- fully washed, also 2 or 3 dried champignons. When fit for serving, lift out of the pan on to a warm dish, cover to keep ^varm. Strain the gravy from the vegetables. Have ready soaked in the vin rouge, \ oz. of gelatine. Mix this with the gravy. Stir until the gelatine is dissolved. Let it reduce to a demi-glaze. In the meantime cut carrot and turnip separately boiled, into rings with a fluted cutter. Pour the glaze over the joint, garnish with carrot and turnip, after being sauted in butter and chopped parsley strewn over. Serve hot as entree or releve. Perdrix au Choux. (Partridge on Cabbage.) Ingredimts: One or more birds, stock, vegetables, and spices for braising, cabbage or Brussel sprouts, butter, pep- per, salt, glaze. Dress the birds, cut into quarters and braise in the usual way; melt some glaze and add to the gravy, and if too much liquid, reduce. Boil cabbage or Brussels sprouts very carefully, first wash in several \vaters, then cook by plunging in boiling water containing salt, a small lump of white sugar and a little car- bonate of soda to keep the colour bright. Cook with the lid off the saucepan. When the cabbage sinks it is done; take up, drain. Then saute with fresh butter, pepper, and salt Place either under or round the birds. Pour the glaze over the birds, so as to cover them; and serve at once hot. This dressing is common enough in La belle France, and recommends itself, and is to my taste infinitely superior toHOTEL AND RESTAURANT COOKERY. dry roasted patridge, served in true English fashion, with that excellent bread poultice, yclept bread sauce." Perdrix a la Victor Hugo. (Partridge in Victor Hugo Fashion.) Ingredients: Patridge, egg, bread crumbs, fecule de pomme de terre, truffles, tarragon vinegar, rich brown demi-glaze, olives, turnips, spices, pepper, and salt. Cut the bird into neat fillets; saute in fresh butter, and when a golden brown, take them out. Season fecule, with pepper and salt. Dip the pieces in so that they are covered. Brush over with egg; toss in bread crumbs ; mix with minced truffles. Put the pieces on a tray in the oven to brown. Put 1 pint of stock and a piece of glaze over the fire, add a tiny drop of tarragon vinegar just to flavour. Lay the bird on the centre of the dish. Pour the demi-glaze over. Have ready white garden turnip, boiled, passed through a wire sieve; seasoned with pepper and salt, moistened with a table- spoonful of cream, or a piece of butter, and moulded in scallop sliells. The shells should be buttered cold, the turnip filled in ko/, and then turned out round the bird. Round thp rim put a faint tinge of finely minced parsley* Compote of Pigeon, Moorfowl, or Partridge, a L' Imperatrice Victoria. Ingredients: Birds, plovers' or pullets' eggs, stock, leek, carrot, turnip, watercress, or parsley, demi-glaze, salt, soda, spices, paper cutlet frills. The dish consists of 3, 5, or 7 birds. After dressing as for roasting, cut the birds into quarters. Remove the nails and blanch the feet by thrusting them into hot water, when the outer skin and nails can be easily removed. Stew the quar- ters in good stock with the following vegetables; sliced Q258 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. carrot, 2 ozs.; turnip sliced, 1 oz.; 1 small leek, cut length- wise. Also spices, cloves, coriander, whole pepper, mace, lemon peel. Give them plenty of time over a slow fire, and stew (not boil), till tender. For each bird allow 1 plover or hen's egg. Boil them for a quarter of an hour, and be sure that they are well covered with water. When done take them out, put them into a basin of cold water. Next cut delicate strips of red carrot, turnip, and the dark and light green portions of the blades of the leek, as if for Julienne soup. Boil the strips of carrot and turnip, in separ- ate waters, with plenty of salt. Also put the leek leaves into a strainer; have ready boiling water with a little salt and soda in it. Pour this over the leeks; then lay all these dressings carefully in little heaps on a clean plate for garnish when dishing the birds. Wash sprays of parsley, or very small delicate closely leaved water-cress, 2 for each bird. Also prepare a cutlet frill and have some gum at hand. When the birds are done, separate all the wings and shoulders from the claw quarters. Strain the gravy; add about a pint of brown stock, and J oz. of soaked gelatine or glaze; dissolve the gelatine and let the stock reduce; fasten a cutlet frill round each little claw, and secure with gum. Put a piece of parsley in each. Make a ring of wing pieces, then on that pile another series of wings, and make a grand trophy of the claws. Brush each piece over with glaze, then arrange the plovers' eggs; shell them ; cut into halves and place with the yolk outwards, between the pieces of bird ; arrange little specks of green parsley here, and there on the white egg tops. Lay the little pieces of red, white, and green vegetables in much the same manner as cheese straws are fixed. First three, then three across, alternating the heaps of yellow, white, and green. Put on the hot plate to thoroughly warm, and when hot, serve. This entree may be served hot or cold.HOTEL AND RESTAURANT COOKERY. 259 Fricandeau de Veau a la Trois Freres. Ingredients: Thick cutlet from leg of veal, grated ham, fat bacon, egg, bouquet of herbs, white stock, celery or seakale, champignons, herbs, bread crumbs, lemon, white veloute sauce. Lard the upper side of the fillet cutlet with a moderately fine needle, and using smoked bacon. Remove the bone and re- place with a forcemeat of grated ham, herbs, champignon, salt, cayenne, and a raw egg. The cutlet should be 2 inches to 2J inches thick. Have white stock boiling in a stewpan. Place the veal in this with the piquees uppermost; add a bouquet of sweet herbs. Stew slowly for 1^ hours. Then take it from the pan. Brown the piquees with the salaman- der, or in front of the fire. Have a bed of stewed celery or seakale. Lay the veal on, or in the centre. Pour the meat juice over the veal, and cover the vegetables with white veloute sauce. Cotelettes de Mouton a la Due D'Albany. Ingredients: Delicately shaped mutton cutlets, fresh butter, salt, pepper, grated nutmeg, vegetables such as cauliflower, carrots, turnips, peas, (or use a lOd. tin of French mace- doine), and fresh cauliflower, with a few button mushrooms, Spanish onion, white sauce, good stock. Lightly fry the cutlets in butter; then put into a stew jar J pint of good stock and a sliced and blanched Spanish onion. Slice the onion into a basin, pour boiling water over, cover the basin with a saucer, and let it rest 15 minutes, empty the water away. Lay the onions in the pot and the cutlets over and stew for half an hour. Take up the cutlets, fasten on frills ; put the macedoine of vegetables in the cen- tre, arrange the cutlets round ; pour the white sauce over the cutlets, leave the vegetables clear; warm and serve260 THE NEW GUIDE fOR HOTELS, ETC. Entree de Due de Teck, (Duke of Teck's Entree.) ingredients: Two chickens, cock's combs, truffles, garden cress, whipped butter, egg, bread crumbs, ox tongue, cham- pignons, cochineal, aspic glaze (glaze jaune), salad oil, white wine vinegar. Roast a couple of nice tender chickens ; cut into quarters ; skin and glaze, i,e,, glaze with transparent, yellow, aspic jelly or glaze. Fill a paper cornet with whipped butter, and when the glaze has set, pipe the quarters of chicken with the butter. To make the butter nice, when creaming beat in a few drops of lemon essence, and a little saffron deepens the colour. The Duke's heraldic devices, mottoes, &c., with monograms should be traced. Make a pyramid of delicate garden cress. Arrange the piped pieces round. Between each of the pieces, place artistically coloured cock's combs (use cochineal if the colour is dull.) Take slices of tongue, cut very thin. Make a stuffing of hard boiled eggs. The whites minced very fine, and the yolks passed through a tammy sieve, mix with a minced truffle and a little seasoning—bind with butter. Spread over the tongue slices, roll up and use in the decoration and construction of the dish, a set of the rolls round the base of the pyramid, and small rolls alternating with the cock's combs. Use whole truffles and champignons, also in the garnish. Pour a mayonnaise sauce round the base. For the centre ornaments place on the top of the salad pyramid a tiny union jack, and the Teck colours, grouped with the German flag. Serve cold.HOTEL AND RESTAURAl^T COOKERY. 261 Entree de L' Artist a la Boehm. (The Boehm Artist's Entree.) Ingredients; Equal parts minced white meats, such as veal, rabbit, chicken, turkey, ham or tongue; chestnuts roasted, and passed through a wire sieve, egg, sweet herbs, seasonings, sauce au supreme, parsley, tomatoes. Roast the chestnuts, they are much whiter, lighter and delicate, than when boiled. It is only coarse, slovenly, ignorant, untrained cooks who boil them for purees. Pass them through a wire sieve after divesting them of the outer husk and the brown inner skin. Pass an equal quantity of white meat through a mincer. Mix it with the chestnuts, and moisten with a raw egg. Season and mix with herbs, rubbed and sifted, and season- ings of spice, pepper, &c., to taste. Form into balls as large as a chestnut. Brush with egg, dip in flour and fry a golden brown. Drain on paper. Whip the whites of enough eggs to cover each ball as with snow, season the whip with salt. Cover the balls with the white snow. Shape and trim the snow with a palette knife. Put the dish just inside the oven for a moment or two to set the foam. But do not let it brown. Pile them up in pyramid fashion. Pour round them white savoury sauce, or sauce an supj-eme. Garnish with parsley and rings of tomato, that have been stewed in white stock. Lift them out carefully so as to pre- serve the contour. Chevreuil a T Abergeldie. (Venison Abergeldie Mode.) Ingtedients: Venison, port wine, currant jelly, unflavoured stock, cayenne, salt, French beans, sweet green corn.262 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. Mince enough venison for the entree, not in the machine, that would be too fine, but by hand in tiny cubes, the dice to be as large as a good sized green pea in bulk. Warm some unflavoured stock jelly, seasoned from salt only. The stock from mutton bones is excellent for the purpose. One tablespoonful of stock to every three of mince will be required. Place the stock in a stewpan over a gentle fire, stir in two tablespoonfuls (2 ozs.) of red currant jelly. When the jelly is quite dissolved, and the stock on the point of boiling, stir in the meat. Let it become thoroughly hot, add a dust of cayenne, and a wineglassful of port wine. It must not boil after the wine is added, or the bouquet flavour will be lost. Serve on a silver entree dish with Sweet Green Corn. Take a tin of sweet mountain green corn. Empty it into a sieve. Pour boiling water from the kettle over and thoroughly rinse—boil for a minute or so, in milk and water—drain off the milk. Mix a table- spoonful of cream with pepper, salt, and saute the green corn in this. Lay the green corn round the mince, garnish with finely cut French beans, (cooked of course,) laid in bands across the yellow corn. Serve hot. The Mount Temple Entree, (Respectfully Dedicated to Lady Mount Temple.; Ingredients: Small white haricot beans, eggs, cream, potatoes, tomatoes, butter, milk, onion, cayenne, garden cress, macedoine of vegetables, beet root, plover's eggs, herbs. The first work will be to bake the beetroot for the salad. This keeps the juices in the beet, and turns out a better coloured article for salad use. Some cooks envelope it in water paste, as when baking ham; others simply soak, brushHOTEL AND RESTAURANT COOKERY. 263 and bake ati 7iatiireL This is a matter for the cook to con- sider. Let the beet become quite cold before using. Boil small haricot beans (white,) say \ a pint, with the heart portion of a Spanish onion, as being milder, also salt, and if the water is hard, a tiny piece of soda; or better still, as much carbonate of soda as will fill a small salt spoon. When tender make a puree of the beans. Mix whilst hot with half the quantity of puree potatoe, seasoned with butter, pepper and salt to taste. Not too much of either, add a raw egg, and a tablespoonful of cream. If the cream is not first class, or there is none on hand, add the yolk of another egg, and do not slop in milk. The cream is added to produce a soft, smooth, delicate taste, agreeable to the trained palate, and which gross feeders possibly would not appreciate or perceive. Add just a flavour of cayenne, no more. Mix in very finely sifted herbs; and form the puree into sausages, egg and bread crumb them. Fry in fresh oil or butter, drain. Arrange them round a pretty centrepiece, composed of a macedoine of hot vege- tables, rings of beet about f inch diameter, cut with a fluted cutter. Tomatoes stewed after being cut into rings, are laid round the base, very carefully this must be done to keep their shape intact, and the rolls of puree laid on. Pour a thick white cream sauce, (made without meat stock) nicely flavoured with vegetables, and fecule de pomme de ierre used for giving it the sauce like consistence. Pour this round the base just at the moment of serving. Keep hot till wanted, and let the sauce be the last item. Again if the rolls are freshly fried they are lighter and better. The sauce gives the contrast of white against brown, and the bright vegetables relieve the sombre colour of the fried rolls. Fringe delicate garden cress round the edge of the e7itree dish. This and the two following are vegetarian entrees.264 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. Entree a la Bailey Walker. (Vegetarian Entree.) Ingredients: Potatoes, butter, cream, salsify, salt, white sifted bread crumbs, oil, eggs, parsley, (corn flour and milk, if no cream is obtainable.) Boil salsify root till tender. This can be procured by sending a few stamps to Covent garden, if unobtainable in country towns. Make it into a puree, mix with cream, season, and keep hot. Bake 6 large potatoes, and when done pass the inside through a wire sieve whilst hot into a basin that is standing in hot water. Add butter and seasoning. Whip the potatoes well with a fork to make them white as snow. Add an egg. Then butter little egg cups wel/y line them with the potatoe mixture. Put about a teaspoonful of salsify cream into each cup. Cover with a top of potatoe, brush the top of the cone over with egg—dust it with bread crumbs. Slip the little cone on to a pewter metal fish slice, brush the other part with egg, dust with crumbs, and pop into boiling oil gently so as not to disarrange the shape. Fry a delicate brown—drain on 2 papers. Garnish with parsley fried. Arrange the cones in pyramid fashion, and groups of parsley here and there. The dish and napkin on which the entree is served should both be hot. A very de- licious sauce to accompany this can be made out of Nichols' Food of Health. Directions are given with the food so I need not trespass on other people's preserves. Entree a la Prof. Newman. (The Professor Newman Entree.) Vegetarian Entree. Ingredients: French lentils, (yellow,) milk, cro.im, breadHOTEL AND RESTAURANT COOKERY. 265 crumbs, sweet herbs, baked flour, vegetable stock, eggs, celery, lemon, oil, salt, butter, pop corns ground. Take some good vegetable stock, and stew yellow French lentils until they are tender. Make a puree of them and beat in a little cream, to give them a smooth nice taste. Add an egg also. Spread the panada on a plate to cool. Make a rich veal stuffing of bread crumbs, sifted lemon thyme, marjoram, lemon peel grated, parsley, butter rubbed into the crumbs—moisten with an egg or cream, form into round balls, and then roll out to form a crescent, thin at either end. Cut the panada into crescents of equal size. Lay the forcemeat on one of the half moons, and cover with another, brush over with egg, dip in ground pop corn flour, and fry in oil. Drain and serve, after draining, surround by a thick brown gravy, made of a roux of butter and flour baked a fawn colour in the oven—vegetable stock, and seasonings, such as a flavouring of tarragon vinegar, to give it a piquante flavour. The white pop corn looks novel, and pretty, on the crescents. The centre on which the half moons are arranged, should be of boiled celery covered with white sauce, or artichokes en Pyramid, covered with cream sauce. Entree Napolitain. (Neapolitan Entree.) Ingredients: Conies, or rabbits, Italian paste stars, Naples macaroni, (the brown in long sticks), milk, eggs, brown stock, salt, pepper corns, cloves &c., caramel, parsley, shallots, &c., cornflour. Stew the macaroni in rich brown stock, say about J lb. Carefully clean, and cut into nice joints, the rabbits intended for the dish. Put them into a stewpan with milk, (no salt) a shallot, pepper-corns, cloves &c. Stew very slowly till they are quite tender, then remove the pieces; strain the liquor;266 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. return it to the pan, and thicken with cornflour ; noiv add salt, and lay back the pieces you intend for the trophy, to keep them warm. Have the yolk of an egg ready to mix with the rabbit liquor. In Italy they use saffron as well, to heighten the colour of the sauce. Dish the pieces of rabbit high up in a cone; add the egg to the sauce, and if you like, a drop or two of saffron colour- ing. Pour this over the little mountain of rabbit; then arrange the macaroni round the base. Cover this with rich brown stock, coloured deeper by a little caramel. Swell some of the paste stars in stock. Some are like snowflakes under the microscope, and of very pretty patterns when developed. With these decorate the yellow sauce. Scald parsley, wring dry, and mince. Strew over the macaroni and serve hot. Perdrix a L'Estouffade. (Stewed Partridge.) Ingredients: Partridge, forcemeat, Westphalia bacon fat, and ham, white wine, bouquet of sweet herbs, shallot, carrots, salt, pepper, mace. Dress as for roasting, stuff with good forcemeat. Lard the breast, using a fine needle, and thin strips of Westphalia bacon, cut into delicate strips. Dust the birds over with salt and pepper. Put into a stewpan, with carrots, onions, a slice of lean Westphalia ham, a tumblerful of cooking sherry, (or chablis,) and a bouquet of sweet herbs. Pass the vegetables through a tammy sieve. When the bird has been stewed for one hour over a slow fire; mix with the gravy and pour round. Brown the piquees with a salamander and serve. Poulette a la Vanderbilt. (Chicken in the Vanderbilt Style.) Jng7'edients: Chicken, plump and not too young; truffle.HOTEL AND RESTAURANT COOKERY. 267 mince, or forcemeat of tongue, veal, &c. If served hot,— sauce piquante. If cold, with salad of cresses ; endive, beet- root, hard-boiled eggs fried, truffles, and olives. Clean and trim the bird as usual for trussing and roasting, then commence to ease the skin from the neck, so as to clear it from the flesh, work it down, loosen round the legs, and then insert the forcemeat between the flesh and the skin. Do not put too much in, but the layer must be even and smooth ; over the merry-thought, and to plump the breast, lay a little extra. The inside should be well seasoned, in fact, rather highly seasoned. Truss for roasting, dredge with flour and fry in boiling fat, sufficient to well cover the bird. When it is a golden brown, drain and serve with hot sauce piquante (see page 413); or if cold, surrounded by a salad mixture, garnished with hard boiled eggs, cut lengthwise, and fried in boiling butter, or rather sauted in butter, and the yolk browned. Place olives and truffles round. Faisan en Sauce Vert, a la Dagonet." (Pheasant in Green Sauce.) (A BREAKFAST DISH.) Ingredihits: Pheasant, forcemeat, egg, sifted white bread crumbs. Bechamel sauce, pickled samphire, spinach juice, (or parsley juice,) mushrooms, tomatoes. Slice handsome thin fillets from the breast of a pheasant. Lay on a truffle forcemeat; roll them up; fasten with a tiny skewer; brush over with egg; dust with bread crumbs, and fry a golden brown. Take 1 pint of Bechamel sauce, (see page 413); colour it green with spinach juice or parsley. Pickled samphire must be finely minced, and stirred into the sauce. Pour round the rolls which should be stacked in the centre of the dish, leaning against each other, and tipped268 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. with fried parsley, as a sort of finish, at the top. Garnish with button mushrooms, and the rings of tomato halved. Poulet a la Mercier. (Chicken Entree a la Mercier.) Ingredients; Chicken, forcemeat, crutons, brown sauce, eggs. Prepare a chicken as for roasting; dust with flour after trussing; put into the basket and fry for 20 minutes, in plenty boiling fat so that it may be covered; cut it into neat joints; have ready a hot forcemeat, mixed with an egg ; cover the joints with this, put it into the oven a few minutes to set. Whip the whites of eggs to a stiff froth ; colour the foam in 3 colours, leaving \ white; cover the joints with the different colours. Pop into the oven for a second just to set, and serve at once. Poulet a la Harridence. (Chicken in the Harridence Mode.) Ingredients : Chicken, puree of chestnuts, lemon, cornflour, cream, milk, butter, white stock, aspic jelly, parsley, pepper, salt, macedoine, pressed tongue, salad dressing, endive. Choose a small-boned, tender chicken. Clean, truss, and roast. When cold, skin and carve into neat fillets. Roast 1 lb. of chestnuts, be careful they are not burnt; take off the outer husk and the inner skin; pass them through a tammy sieve; flavour the puree with a little grated lemon rind, and moisten it with a small quantity of cream, only sufficient to make the puree moist. Take out the bones deftly and replace with the chestnut mixture. Glaze each piece with aspic jelly. Divide the jelly into two portion s Into one, drop a few drops of cochineal to make itHOTEL AND RESTAURANT COOKERY. 269 of a pink hue. Cover the fillets half with yellow, half with pink jelly. Put into a cornet of paper, (if you have no prop- er apparatus), some sauce made of cornflour and milk, flavoured with a tablespoonful of cream and a piece of butter, beaten in; with salt and white pepper to season. Pipe the fillets into cross bars, forming squares, in each of the quadrangles pipe a dot of white, and on each put the finest speck of green parsley, or pipe in, a green dot; colouring the sauce with spinach juice. Trim round with endive and a handsome macedoine of vegetables, cover with a nice salad dressing. Mayonaise or tartare sauce. Fillet de Veau a la Sir Stafford Northcote. No. i, (Fillet of Veal in the Sir Stafford Northcote mode.) Ingredients: Fine leg cutlet, or steak, large mushroom, orange, bread crumbs, calf's brains, fritter batter, chip pota- toes, (circular form) egg, cayenne, and seasonings, flour. Break up a large flap mushroom ; sprinkle salt over to ex- tract the juice ; grate the rind of the orange; shake a dust of cayenne on it; mix this with the mushroom juice; add a shake of pepper, and rub it well into both sides of the meat. Dip the cutlet into self-raising flour; brush over with egg, and fry in plenty of fat, or wrap in buttered paper and grill, the latter is more delicate. Make neat little fritters of the brains. First blanch them and stew for 10 to 15 minutes in stock, and prepare a batter of 1 tablespoonful of flour; the yolk of an egg; a dessert- spoonful of olive (salad) oil, and lukewarm water. Mix to a batter that will drape from the spoon. Whip the white of the egg to a stiff* foam ; stir into the batter at the last moment; dip the pieces of brain in; fry in boiling fat and drain. Fry circular chip potatoes a golden brown. Lay the cutlet on the centre of a silver dish, the potatoes and brain fritters270 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. round. Garnish with fried parsley laid round the edge of the cutlet to form a ring; and the potatoe and fritters also garnished. Serve with thick brown sauce. Cutlet a la Northcote a L'Inde. No. 2, (Northcote Cutlet, Indian Style.) Prepare as above, dipping the cutlet, potatoes and brains, into medium curry powder, instead of flour. Serve with mango chutney as sauce. If the curry powder is too hot, it can be diluted with baked flour, or lentil flour, browned. Cutlet de Veau a la Milord Earl d'Iddesleigh. No. 3. (Veal Cutlet in the Earl of Iddesleigh Style.) MOST RESPECTFULLY DEDICATED BY CORDON BLEU. Ingredients: Veal cutlet, tomatoes, chestnuts, eggs, cream, lemon, seasonings, butter, bread crumbs, parsley. Roast the chestnuts, boiled chestnuts will not do. Husk and peel. Pass through a wire sieve, season, and while hot, beat up with 2 ozs. of butter to each half pound, (1 lb. of chest- nuts will be enough for each cutlet to be dressed) add an egg and a tablespoonful of cream to the 1 lb., butter small cups, or egg moulds, fill them with the mixture and put them in the steamer to keep hot. Dress the cutlet with egg and seasoned bread crumbs, (salt, pepper, the grated rind of a lemon) and fry a golden maize colour. Lay on a silver dish, garnish with fried parsley; a thin ring round the extreme edge, and a bunch in the centre. Pour a good rich tomato sauce round. It must not on any account be slopped on the cutlet, or itHOTEL AND RESTAURANT COOKERY. 2? I will make the egg and crumb dressing sodden instead of deliciously crip. Stand the puree half egg shape round, the point upwards, at intervals in the red sauce. Tip each of the mounds with fried parsley. Faisan a la Sir Stafford Northcote. (Pheasant a la Sir Stafford Northcote.) Ingredients: Hen pheasants, bacon fat, marsala, white stock, spices whole, as mace, white peppers, allspice, long peppers. Chutney sauce, rich brown gravy, lemon, endive, glaze, caramel. Truss hen pheasants as for roasting. Lard the breasts and thighs. Put into a deep stewpan enough clear stock to cover the birds, also the whole spices, and 1 glass of marsala. Let the liquor come to the boil, and put in the birds. Sfew them i. e. boil very slowly for seven to ten minutes, then lift the birds out; wipe them dry, dust with flour, dip them in melted dripping, or brush over with olive oil. The latter is the more delicate plan. Roast in front of a clear fire, basting well during the time. When the bird is a rich nut brown take it off the spit. To SERVE. Place it on a hot silver dish. Pour a thick chutney sauce round the oval formed by the birds. Garnish with lemon rings, and very small sprays of endive. Reduce the strained liquor in which the birds were stewed, add 2,little glaze, and colour deep brown ; flavour if needed, and thicken with baked fawn coloured flour. Pour over the birds, and serve. Lievre a la Fred Archer. (Hare in the Fred Archer Style.) Ingredients: Hare, forcemeat, shalot, young laurel leaf,272 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC* brown bread raspings. Red wine, egg, white bread crumbs, sifted and seasoned, pepper and salt, currant jelly. Take a leveret or hare that has hung a few days. Pluck off the fur as if picking a fowl. Dip the head and ears in boiling water, scrape quite clean. Cut off the paws. Be particular about cleaning out the ears—Remove the eyes, and bone the animal. Make a forcemeat of veal, boiled ham (fat and lean,) shalot, thyme, a young laurel leaf, i oz. of mushroom, canned. Mince the whole very fine, add i lb. of brown bread raspings, season with pepper, salt, cayenne, moisten with a dessert spoonful of melted currant jelly, and a glass of red wine, fvm ordinaire). Bind with an egg. Bone the hare, and replace the bones with the stuffing. Fix the shape with a cloth bound round. Set back the ears.— Stew in brown stock for one hour. Take it out, let it get cold. Dip in boiling water, or pour it over the binders and take them off. Brush the hare over with egg; strew white bread crumbs over, which have been finely sifted and seasoned. Place the hare in a large frying basket. Plunge into the frying kettle of boiling fat. Let it remain ten to fifteen minutes, till the crumbs are golden brown. Drain and serve with jelly and rich brown gravy sauce, in which a glass of red wine is mixed. The jelly should be on a separate dish, and can be taken or not, at the will of the guest* Perdreaux a la Princess Beatrice. (The Princess Beatrice Entree of Partridges.) Ingredients: A leash of birds, (3) fat of Cumberland smoked bacon, verjuice, consomme, barberries, watercress. Dress and truss the three partridges as for roasting. Cut delicate strips of bacon. Using a fine larding needle, piquee the breast in patterns. If for royal guests, theliOTEL AND RESTAURANT COOKERY. 273 crown, or if for other guests, the family arms or emblems, &c. Lay the birds in verjuice, (the juice from sour grapes; to be had at the Italien warehouses) for an hour. Take them out, wipe them dry, this must be done carefully so as not to disturb the piquees. Wrap them in proper grilling paper, that has been buttered. Roast for half an hour, basting thoroughly all the time. Remove the paper, and brown the birds. Use a good well cleared consomme for the sauce. Garnish with barberries and watercress. Poitrines D' Agneau a La Von Moltke. (The Moltke Entree of Breast of Lamb.) Ingredients: 2 Breasts of lamb, strong veal stock, force- meat, eggs, butter, white crumbs, parsley, chestnuts, demi- glaze sauce. I am indebted to my friend Herr Stavenhagen, chef de cuisine, for the following receipt: — Remove the outer skin from 2 breasts of lamb. Stew them in the liquor from boiled fowls, veal, or other white meat till tender. Have ready a forcemeat of lean mutton, veal, or any meats of the kind you may have to spare. Add herbs and seasonings of course, after it comes out of the mincer, also a raw egg. When the breasts are cooked, rapidly remove the bones. Spread the forcemeat on the inside of the breasts. Lay them together, the insides opposite each other. Put them in a meat press, or if the presses are all in use, take a large platter, a few inches bigger than the breasts. Turn it upside down and lay the breasts on it. Put another of equal size on them, and place a 28 lb. weight on it, and leave it 12 hours to cool. Dress rib tips as for cutlets of lamb. Blanch and whiten them. Prepare plenty of white sifted bread crumbs. Also the eggs thus. Beat up 2 yolks, and 1 white of egg io K2 74 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. each 1 oz. of butter, melted to the oil, by putting into a small basin or cup, and standing this in a vessel containing hot water. When oiled, wipe the cup dry, and mix in the butter with the eggs, drop by drop as for a mayonaise, stir- ring the whole time. Cut the meat into delicate shaped (schone) cutlets, brush over with egg, dust with bread crumbs seasoned with pepper, salt, and cayenne. Let it rest for half an hour. Repeat the operation twice more, and the third time fry in boiling fat, till the cutlets are a golden brown. Place the rib tips in each, dress with a cutlet frill. Serve with puree of chesnuts, or mashed potatoes in the centre, garnish with fried parsley and demiglaze sauce. La Pelotte de Neige a la Gladstone. (The Gladstone Snow Ball Entree.) Ltgredients: Cold roast game, York ham, chestnuts, eggs, sifted biscuit crumbs, sauce au supreme, spinach, or parsley juice, lemon and cream. Mince the game and season. Mix with minced York ham, and 2i pm^ee of roasted chestnuts. Add a tablespoonful of cream, and an egg to the mince. Dust the board with flour, fashion into balls as large as an apple. Egg them over, w^mgyolks only and toss in biscuit crumbs, fry a golden Indian maize colour. Drain on paper, and then cover each ball, with the foam of whipped whites of eggs, seasoned with salt. To do this they should be on a plate, and removed to the oven to set for a minute or so, then with a knife remove them to the entree dish and lay them on sauce au siipreiiie, either coloured green with Spinach juice, or strewed over with minced parsley, wrung dry in a cloth after mincing. A broad bladed knife is best for this purpose.HOTEL AND RESTAURANT COOKERY. 275 Pigeons a la Due de Cambridge. (The Duke of Cambridge's Pigeon Entree.) Ingredients: Pigeons, brown beef stock, red wine, desic- cated cocoanut, ham or tongue, spices, lemon. Prepare the pigeons over night, dressing and quartering them; blanching the toes in hot water, and removing the skin and nails. Rub in black pepper and ground allspice, and lay them in a bath of rough red wine. Do not over-do the spices. Let the birds steep all night. Add an equal quantity of brown stock to the red wine, and stew the birds in this liquor for 1 hour. When done, bruise the livers in a mortar. Lift out the birds. Reduce the gravy by rapid boiling one half, add the livers and dessicated cocoanut to thicken it. Make a handsome trophy of the birds' wings and claws. Put in each claw a piece of parsley. Surround the trophy with the thick gravy; garnish with semi-quarters of lemon. Roll slices of hot ham, cut very thin, and place round in the gravy. Dindon a la Whitehead. (The Whitehead Duck Entree.) Ingredients: Duck, forcemeat, good stock, white wine, spinach, truffles, brown glaze, apples, quince, sugar. Dress and cut the bird into neat joints, put it in a pan to stew with good stock. Make a fine forcemeat of white meats, well-seasoned and flavoured with truffles. Moisten it with stock. When the duck is nearly ready, add 1 or 2 raw- eggs to the forcemeat; butter a shape, a cone is best; place the forcemeat in, put buttered paper over, and steam for 15 minutes. Have ready also a bed of well-cooked, finely- chopped spinach. Lay this in a silver entree dish, which should be very hot. Place the forcemeat in the centre. Pile576 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. the duck (or ducks) artistically round. Reduce the gravy after removing the oil and grease; add brown glaze. Pour it over all the pieces of the duck, so as to glaze the whole. Serve with apple sauce flavoured with a slice of quince, and sweet green peas as an accompaniment. If apples cannot be obtained, use canned; or else, green gooseberry sauce in lieu. The Haggis, or Scotchman's Glory. The stomach of a sheep or Iamb is taken;—true Haggis, 1 believe in the Highlands is the sheep's stomach. The bags, large and small, are well cleansed in several waters; rubbed with salt to free from impurities, and lastly scalded with boiling water. The next operation has to be performed most cautiously, one slip of the knife and the haggis would be spoilt. The bags are carefully and thoroughly scraped. It has to be performed as delicately as the boning of the back of a lean chicken, i, e,, no scratch or cut to break any part of the membrane, yet the whole chemically and perfect- ly cleansed. Next lay the bags in strong brine for 12 hours. Wash the pluck, z. e,, lights, liver, and heart, and hang them up to dry. Boil them the next day with the small bag,— "The King's Hood," as it is sometimes called. It has the windpipe attached to it. Give **The King's Hood" a sauce- pan to itself and leave the pipe hanging out of the pot. To the cook the reason will be patent enough. It takes about to 2 hours, quiet, steady boiling. When the *'Hood" and pluck are cooked, trim off all the gristle, &c. Rub \ of the liver through a wire sieve. Mince by hand, not too finely, nor yet in coarse cubes, about \ lb. of mutton or lamb suet, together with the finer portions of the lights and the small bag, also the heart. Mix the mince with J lb. of coarse Scotch oatmeal; oatmeal flour will not do; the English oat-HOTEL AND RESTAURANT COOKERY. 277 meal will cause a failure in the dish. Let the coarse-ground Aberdeen meal be dried in the oven first. Scotch peasant women, I have seen dry it on plates in front of the fire or on the girdle. This renders the meal sweet, and eradicates all traces of damp musty flavour, or sour fermentation that may have attacked it. Freshly ground, sweet tasting oatmeal is an essential. Mix all together in a dry state, thoroughly season with black pepper and salt. Put the whole into a basin. Moisten with J a pint of the liquor in which the pluck was boiled. Let it stand 20 minutes or half-an-hour; then little more than half fill the large bag, which of course has not been cooked in any way. Sew it up with a needle and thread. Have a large pot three-quarters full of boiling water. The water must be boiling as rapidly as it is possible before attempting to put in the haggis. They are best cooked in a Bai7i Marie saucepan, but if not, a plate should be placed under them, or paper. Some cooks tie the haggis in a cloth, but no true Scotch man or woman cook ever did so. From time to time pierce with a skewer, and let the expanded hot air escape. If this is not attended to the bag may burst, and the glory of a Scottish feast he turned into oatmeal brose. N. B. The moment it is taken out of the water it must he served on a very hot silver dish. No garnish, no sauce,— ** Monarch of all the oatmeal savoury pudding surveys." It claims that ** Beauty" in the shape of haggis, ** when un- adorned adorns the most.*' Rice Birds. The following two recipes were invented for, and named after Miss E. Terry and Mr. Irving whilst on their American tour and are now published by the permission of the author and inventor. Rice-birds are the Blue-birds of America, they are as sacred to the American as our Robin. They carol so brightly, are so278 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. pert and yet so sweet, that in their garb of blue-bird they are loved. But in the autumn the rice-bird flies to the South ; he changes his blue coat and dons brown feathers,—alters from the seranading Adonis to the gourmet; flocks with his brethren to the rice-fields of the sunny south and gorges, becomes fat, is captured, killed, dressed, and eaten, as for instance :— Rice Birds a U Ellen Terry. Take the birds after dressing, and stufl" them with a deli- cate forcemeat. Brush them over with egg, dip or dust in finely sifted bread crumbs ; fry in boiling fat. Drain. Take very large potatoes, 1 to each bird, peel them, cut them in half (Scotch Regents are best for this), scoop out the centre in both halves, so as to lay the birds in, brush the 2 halves over with white of egg, lay in a bird ; close the pota- toe; tie round with tape, put it with the others, on a baking tray; baste well with butter or bacon fat; when done, wipe the potatoe dry; they should be of a bright, golden maize colour. Tie them up with a delicate pink satin ribbon. Where the tape marks are, /. once across and once lengthwise, pile on a hot napkin ; garnish with stellaria, or jonquil, and fern ; and serve with white cream sauce. This is a good breakfast, luncheon, or supper dish. Larks can be used, or h quails in- stead of the rice-birds ; even sparrows are not to be despised, and when treated a la Ellen Terry, are as exquisite a breakfast bonne bouche as ever they are when dressed as:— Rice Birds a Irving. Ingredients: Rice-birds, (larks, sparrows, or quails,) oyster, forcemeat, boiled ham, vineleaf, egg, rich brown gravy sauce, red wine. Dress the birds, by skimming, drawing, and trussing. Pre- pare a good oyster forcemeat oi/reshfiioX canned oysters;HOTEL AND RESTAURANT COOKERY. 279 the flavour of the first is far superior. Take a piece of the forcemeat as large as a peanut, wrap it in a thin slice of lean, cold, boiled ham. Insert this in the body of the bird; wrap each bird in a vine leaf. Peel and wash potatoes, large round Scotch Regents for instance, scoop out a hollow in the cen- tre, place a bird in each; brush the edges of the potatoe over with white of egg; close it together, tie it neatly with tape, and bake in the oven till it is a chestnut brown. Take the potatoes, when cooked (about 1 hour in a moderate oven) —they will take longer than in the Ellen Terry recipe, as in this case the birds are uncooked when put in the potatoe. Remove the tape; brush the potatoe over with raw egg to glaze; tie round with white satin ribbon when the egg glaze is dry. Serve on a hot silver dish ; cover with a hot napkin. Rich brown gravy sauce, with a glass of port wine, (or red wine) stirred in, is handed in a tureen, and jelly on a plate. This is the style at a leading Boston House, and has been in vogue at many of the English hon vivants tables since it was made popular amongst the Chefs in this country Langues d' Agneau a la Prince de Galle. (Lambs' Tongues a la Prince of Wales.) Ingredients: Lambs' tongues; lambs, sheep, or ox brains, white stock, button mushrooms, grated lemon rind, olives, thyme, parsley, chervil, white sifted bread crumbs, egg, Crutons (fried bread,) brown sauce, port wine, baked flour, lemon and orange pickle. Blanch the brains after thoroughly washing, cleansing and steeping in salt and water. As soon as they come to boil in the water, pour it off and stew in white stock very slowly for 15 minutes. Take them out of the stock and let them get quite cool. Peel and mince 3 button mushrooms. Mix with J a teaspoonful of grated lemon rind, 1 minced28o THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. olive, powdered .thyme, parsley, chervil sifted, and ^ a tea- cupful finely sifted white bread crumbs. Mix with a raw egg. Cut slices of tinned lambs' tongues, also slices of brains, cover with the stuffing; squeeze 2 drops of lemon juice on each, roll up, fasten with small wooden skewers. Dress with eggs and bread crumbs. Fry and serve in fine, rich, brown sauce, flavoured with port wine. Garnish with fried crutons carefully drained, and half rings of lemon semi-quartered. Sarcelle a la Gourmet. (Teal, Gourmond Style.) Ingredients: Teal,, macedoine, minced beet root, red cur- rant jelly, spices, thick brown gravy. Pluck, singe, draw the bird, cut it down the back with a sharp knife. Remove the pink sole by pouring boiling water from a kettle, on the pink substance lining the back. Rub spices well into the body of the bird, which however, I may say, is only cut down the back, but not divided in two. Close it up, put it into a sharp oven for 10 minutes, to brown. Lift it out, brush every part over with butter. Put it on the grill, the inside next to the fire. Broil for 5 minutes; then have a rich brown gravy thickened with baked fawn coloured flour. Lay the bird on a very hot silver dish. Place it just as it was on the grid, open with the inside towards the dish. Pour the gravy round the bird. Open a tin of Macedoine, from a kettle pour salted boiling water over the vegetables, which must be placed in a strainer for the purpose. This frees them from acetate of tin or lead, the vegetable acid may have loosened and extracted from the tin or can, and absorbed in its liquid surroundings. Place alternate heaps of this, and red beet root, cut nicely with plain or fluted cutter, roundHOTEL AND RESTAURANT COOKERY. 281 the outer edge of the gravy, as a garnish, also quarters of lemon and orange pickles. Serve jelly on a separate crystal, or silver plat. Canard (Canvashack) Sauvage a la Coleridge. (The Coleridge Wild Duck.) Ingredients: 1 Canvashack duck, (American,) 6 yams, (a sweet potatoe,) gravy, port wine, spices, lemon, land cress. Dress the duck, and truss as for roasting. Wrap in a buttered paper; roast before a good fire. Baste well whilst it is on the spit. Remove the paper and drain. Slice 6 yams, fry them a golden brown, drain, dust with salt. Lay them on a silver dish, put the bird on them. Pour the gravy round the bird. Garnish with lemon and land cress.—Add a glass of red wine to the gravy. Dindon a la Comte de Chambord. (Turkey in the Count Chambord Fashion.) Ingredients: Turkey, truffles, bacon fat, butter, spices, stock, red wine, fois gras. Prepare a fine turkey as for the spit. Blanch and clean the giblets. Take about \ oz. of fois gras in the bladder, roll slices of thin ham and truffles. Put all this into a sauce- pan, with 1 pint of fine meat stock, and 2 wineglassfuls of red wine, spices, herbs, and a bay leaf. Stew slowly for three quarters of an hour, over a very moderate fire. Turn it out of the pan, pass through a mincer twice. Pour any liquid there may be over the mince. Leave it to get quite cold. Then stuff the turkey with it. Close up and truss the bird as for roasting. Let it hang 3 days thus stuffed and trussed. Lard the breast of the bird with fine strips of bacon fat, using a fine needle for the purpose. A fleur de lis makes a pretty piquee pattern. !R.oasL, keeping well basted, and the breast covered with2 82 TITE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. buttered paper, until it is nearly done. Then remove the paper, brown and serve with sauce aux truffles. Another dish of which the Comte de Chambord was fond of, is Courge a la Chambord. (Vegetable Marrow a la Chambord.) Ingredients: Young firm green skinned marrow, flour, eggs, white sifted bread crumbs, seasonings, butter, lemon, or verjus, (liquor from green grapes,) fried parsley, white cream sauce. Cut slices from a firm young marrow, about \ inch thick, dip in flour seasoned with pepper and salt, then in a beaten up egg. Dust with fine sifted bread crumbs. Fry in boiling fat, then place on an entree dish. Put into a saucepan 1 oz. of butter, when it has melted, pour in a beaten up egg, seasoned with pepper and salt. Stir it rapidly round, and when set, divide in three or two, according to the size of the rings of marrow, and place in heaps on it. Squeeze the lemon juice over each heap and serve at once with cream sauce. Canard a L* Empress Eugenie. (Duck in the Empress Eugenie's Style.) Ingredients: The breast and wings of ducks, Quenelle forcemeat, usual brazing vegetables, fat bacon, rich stock, Seakale, haricot verts, (Windsor broad beans) butter, season- ings, pickled barberries, lemons. Cut off i the breast and wing of a duck in one piece, so as to form a cutlet. Skin the cutlet. Bone the wing and replace the bone with quenelle farce. Lard the breasts care- fully with a fine needle, having smoked bacon for the pur- pose. Braise on a /// (bed) of the following vegetablesHOTEL AND RESTAURANT COOKERY. 283 properly washed and cleaned,—! leek, cut lengthwiso, (or 2 shalots) 2 square inches of lemon peel, parsley, thyme, chervil, bay leaves, carrot, celeriac, morels, and good rich sound stock. Braise and glaze. Lay the duck on a bed of nicely cooked seakale. Have ready a puree of blanched broad Windsor beans, mixed with butter, pepper and salt. Mould the puree in a tablespoon as for quenelles, (or make a wall round the duck of them,) lay them round the duck, garnish with pickled barberries and lemons. Pigeon a la Prince Imperial. (Pigeons, Prince Imperial Style.) Ingredients: 4, 6 or 8 Pigeons make the dish, powdered spices, marsala, white wine vinegar, bay leaves, 6 cloves, \ oz. of sliced ginger, both bruised. Forcemeat of hard boiled egg yolks, bread raspings, livers of birds, eggs, sifted white bread crumbs, cardoons, red wine, cochineal, fecule de pomme de terre, butter, parsley, lemon, Parmesan cheese grated. Bone the pigeons, and whilst turned inside out, season with the following mixture of equal quantities each of finely powdered allspice, mace, cayenne, white pepper, salt, cori- ander seeds and cardamum seeds. Rub it well into the flesh. Then turn the birds, skin side outwards. Lay them in an earthenware dish. Pour over them the following pickle: 1 pint of marsala, J pint of white wine vinegar, 3 bay leaves, 6 bruised cloves, J oz. of sliced and bruised ginger. Let it come slowly to the boil, and remain boiling for 3 minutes. Pour at once over the birds. The spices, wine and vinegar, should be boiled in an enamelled, or earthen- ware lined saucepan, as iron detracts from the strength of both wine or vinegar stored or cooked in them. There should be enough liquor to cover the birds. Let them lie in284 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. this ?7iarinade for 12 hours, turning them once during the time. Then take them out and drain on a sieve. Do not throw away the liquor, as it will assist in making the brown sauce, which is served in a separate tureen, for those who like it. Wipe the birds dry, stuff with a forcemeat of the yolks of hard boiled eggs, bread raspings, and the parboiled livers of the birds finely minced. Lard the breasts carefully, brush the birds over with egg, beaten up, dip in bread crumbs, fry in boiling fat, till they are of a bright golden colour. Drain on paper, and serve on a lit (bed) of cardoons dressed thus: — String and cut them into IJ inch lengths, stew them in vin ordinaire (common claret), with enough cochineal to make them a fine colour. Season with white pepper, salt, cayenne. When tender, lift out the vegetable; thicken with fecule de pomme de terre, beat in 1 oz. of fresh butter. Arrange the vegetable on the dish effectively; pour the red sauce over; place the birds on this. Garnish with fried parsley and lemon quarters. Serve a good rich thick brown sauce, in which the pickle the birds lay in has been utilized, and that has been thickened with a brown roux of baked flour and a little butter. Serve on a small glass dish. Parmesan cheese grated and seasoned with cayenne, for those who like it with the cardoons. Lamb a la Monaco. (Monaco Lamb Dressing.) Ingredients: Three cutlets from leg of lamb, \ of an inch thick, milk, sweet herbs, spices, finely sifted white bread crumbs, salt, pepper, mushroom powder, grated lemon rind, farina (cornflour), egg, butter, chopped capers, lentils, or green peas. Cut the ingat in level nice cutlets, from the leg; sawHOtEL AND RESTAURANT COOKERY. 285 through the bone. Place the cutlets in a deep stewpan and cover with fresh milk. Add sweet herbs (lemon thyme, basil, parsley, bay-leaf,) and spices, (cloves, white pepper, mace, and a tiny piece, as large as a lentil, of nutmeg) no salt. Stew quite gently for 1 hour. There must not be more than a ripple on the milk. Take out the cutlets. Do not throw away the milk, strain it, for it will be wanted. Dust the meat over on both sides with cornflour, using a dredger. Brush the cutlets over with egg. Toss in bread crumbs. Fry a golden brown ; drain, and place in a hot entree dish. Make the milk into sauce by thickening with cornflour farina; beat in a lump of butter; then add the salt, not before or the milk will curdle. Chop about a tablespoonful of capers or gherkins to every pint of sauce. Surround the cutlets with this and border with green peas, or green lentils in the pod, dress somewhat like French beans. Serve hot. Ortolans a la Sirene Francois. (The French Syren Ortolans.) Melt butter sufficient to brush over as many paper cases as you have birds to serve, or oil them with olive oil. Do not draw the birds but truss them. Take chervil, lemon thyme, basil, chives, and twice the quantity of button mush- rooms ; mince them all very fine, squeeze lemon juice over and a little salt; mix them well together. Brush each bird over with butter; dip into the mixture the moment it is covered and while the butter is still semi-oiled. Place in the case; cover over with buttered paper; place on a tray on a bed of charcoal or rice, to prevent the paper from being burnt. When cooked draw from the oven; have the yolk of hard boiled eggs passed through a wire sieve; sprinkle it on the top of each bird and lay a quarter of a lemon on each case and serve.^86 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. Cailles au Chasseur (Salmis de). Salmis of Quails au Chasseur.) Ingredients: Leash of quails, butter, baked brown flour, white wine, white stock, sweet herbs, bay leaf, pepper, cay- enne, vinegar, crutons, (fried bread) lemon. Draw the birds and prepare in the usual way. Cut each bird in two, lengthwise. Fry till half cooked in butter; drain ; make a brown roux of butter and brown baked flour ; add white wine in proportion of l-8th of a pint to every \ pint of good rich gravy stock. Sweet herbs and a bay leaf are added, spices, cayenne, and vinegar. Let it boil a few minutes with the birds in. Have crutons^ dish the birds on them. Strain the gravy and pour over. Squeeze a drop or two of lemon on each bird, and send to table sharp, before the crutons have time to become sodden and lose their crispness. Marrot a la Daniose (Marrot in the Danish Style.) Ingredients: Marrot, salt, trufiies, sauce piquante, lemon, oysters, oil batter, fennel, thick brown wine, and stock sauce, olives. Mayonnaise sauce, lemon. Dress, skin, and soak the marrot in strong salt and water, for 6 hours; change the water and salt, and let it lie another 6 hours; this takes off the fishy taste that clings to seafowl. The sole or reddish brown substance lining the back, must also be removed. Pour boiling water from the neck to the vent, down the inside, so as to pass over the back of the bird. This can soon be removed by scraping it off the bone and rubbing with salt. Truss as for wild duck. Stew with truffles, and serve with rich brown sauce piquante. Garnish with lemons and a sort of salad made of olives and truffles,HOTEL AND RESTAURANT COOKERY. 2S7 sliced and covered with Mayonnaise sauce. The duck is placed in the centre of a large silver dish shrouded in the thick brown sauce, an oval of the olives, &c., laid round, and fennel as a feathery outer border. Chevreuil a la Yellowstone Hotel. (Venison in the Yellowstone Park Hotel Style. Ingredients: Venison steak, marinade of white wine, vine- gar, vine leaves, butter, cayenne, shalot vinegar, salt. Take a good thick venison steak, tender with a steak pres- ser, put it in a marinade of white wine vinegar, (or verjuice, i. e. the juice of green grapes expressed) for twenty minutes. This will soon tender tough, or newly killed beef or mutton steak; the steak is taken out, wiped dry, wrapped in vine leaves, and then in buttered grill papers, and grilled on a silver grid, over a charcoal fire. Butter beaten up with pepper, cayenne, and salt, in very small proportions, also one drop—no more—of shalot vinegar, is placed on each steak in serving in the grill paper, where all the natural juices of the meat will be found preserved. Filet de Veau a la Grand Due. (Grand Duke Fillet of Veal.) Ingredients: Throat sweetbread, butter, eggs, bread crumbs, bacon fat, campignon powder, spices, 1 dozen oysters, mashed carrots, leg of veal cutlet. Blanch a throat sweetbread, by putting into cold water and letting it come to the boil. Lard with bacon fat, using a medium needle, a leg cutlet of veal. Lay it down with the piquees next the board. Place the sweetbread in a clean cloth ; wipe it dry. Brush over with egg, dip in fine sifted bread crumbs, and fry a golden brown in sweet fresh butter. Drain, and place on the top of the cutlet, roll the cutlet up288 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. with the piquees outside. Fasten with a silver skewer and braise. Open 1 dozen oysters, just scald in their own juice. Lift out the braise; reduce the gravy a little; pour over the cutlet; place the oysters round, and little cones of carrot mashed with butter, pepper, and salt, laid round. A rich thick gravy or pepper sauce can be served if wished. Trophee de Be.casses et Bacassinco. (Trophy of Woodcocks and Snipes.) Ingredients: 6 Woodcocks, 6 snipes, aspics red and yellow, creamed butter, bacon fat, red wine, brown stock, glaze, shalot, salt, pepper, mace, lemon, orange, and barberrry sprays pickled, small pullets' eggs, (or plovers') hard boiled, garden cress, water cress, endive, cranberries, mountain ash. Dress the birds carefully. Draw them, and place the trails of each kind in separate vessels. Truss the birds in the usual way, the bill through the thighs and the legs drawn through the sinews just above the joint and the feet crossed. Of course they are first soaked in boiling water and blanched, /. e, the outer skin of the legs and claws with the nails removed very carefully. Now slice a shalot. Put into the bottom of a stewing jar; lay in the birds, with 2 wineglasses of red wine; 2 do. of strong brown stock, and 2 ozs. of butter for each 4 birds. Be sure the oven is hot, but not fierce, when the jar is put in. Cook for about 15 minutes. In the mean- time, take the woodcock trails and beat them up with a spoon. Season well with pepper and spices above named. Break two eggs and a piece of butter into a small saucepan ; add the trails ; stir the two together till the eggs set. Lift the pan off the fire. When the woodcocks are cooked, take them out of the stewing jar; drain them; place an equal portion of the egg and trail in each bird. Reduce the gravy after every particle of fat has been removed. Add brown glaze to makeHOTEL AND RESTAURANT COOKERY. 289 it into a strong jelly, (or use gelatine and caramel). Mask the birds in this entirely, and leave them till wanted. It fact glaze them as you would a tongue. Dress the snipe, by roasting the birds, basting with butter. Cook the trails as you prepared those of the woodcocks. Divide the egg mixture equally, and put some into each bird. When the birds are cold commence to form the trophy. Cream butter, season it with a little lemon juice, and white pepper. When it is sufficiently beaten up divide it into three parts. One part plain and self coloured, or if too pale a little carrot or saffron colouring to intensify the yellow. Colour part two, red with cochineal. Part three, colour with parsley juice, (or prepared vegetable colouring) worked in. Put these in fine thread cornets and pipe the birds in devices. The simplest are cross bars of yellow and red, with green dots on the corners of the squares or in the centre, and so on, varying the barring and dots. The more experienced in piping, can trace out scrolls, leaves, and a variety of pretty heraldic and other devices, that will give the dish a noble style and appearance. Leave the snipes quite plain, and if they are well roasted they will look very handsome in relief from the ornamentation, serving as a foil. Drape the dish on the edge with dark sprays of endive, shading towards the heart leaves as it comes to the centre. Take pickled barberry sprays, and arrange them at intervals amongst it. Also half quarters of pickled lemon and orange, (see page 402,) cranberries, and mountain ash berries pickled. Shade the colours from the barberries to the lemon as you have shaded the endive. Then commence to build the trophy of birds in the centre. A sort of salad mixture will form a rest to the novice, but try and fix them without. Dip the brush in strong almost set glaze, yet not too cold, touch each bird with this as you put it upright in place, and it will cause it to adhere to its fellows, and tho2go THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. dish. Ornament the spaces between, by placing in each interstice tufts of light cress, sprays of barberries dried from the pickle, 3 hard boiled eggs, with the yolks placed outside, so as to assist in the colouring decorations. The mountain ash berries, if pickled in small clusters, are particularly at* tractive as decorative agents, like barberries, especially for game trophies, &c. Prepared and arranged for a banquet designed in honour of the majority of H. R. H. Prince Albert Victor of Wales, by Cordon Bleu. Breakfast Accessories. Just a few breakfast and smoked meat dishes may not be inappropriate here, for instance there is :— Hamburg or Hung Beef for Grating. This is best prepared in the winter or spring ; when the weather is cold, but not during a severe frost. Let the beef hang for 10 days. The round is the proper part to use for the purpose. For every 6 lbs. of meat make the following mixture in the proportions of Raw Sugar (brown,) lib. Pyroligneous Acid, \ oz. Ground Saltpetre, 1 oz. do. Bay Salt, 1 oz. do. Long Peppers, 1 oz. do. Allspice, 1 oz. do. Cloves, 1 oz. Dried and Ground Juniper Berries, J oz. Common Salt, for each 10 lbs. weight of meat. 4 ozs. Mix these ingredients thoroughly, and rub them into the meat night and morning for 10 days. Turning the beef eachHOTEL AND RESTAURANT COOKERY. 291 day, so that it may rest in the self produced liquor. The rubbing is best done by a young apprentice, and the hands should be washed first in hot and then in cold water, before rubbing. The meat must be rubbed, in and on every part, and an elder cook should superintend, whilst the boy*s small fingers and palm, work in the mixture for quite an hour at a time. For the rest, after the meat, say 15 lbs. to 20 lbs., has been duly pickled, lift it out, wipe it dry. Stitch a ham cover, i, e, coarse linen cover; making it in a compact firm shape. Drive a strong staple into a biscuit or apple barrel, at one end, pass a wire round the beef, and fix it to the staple. Put on an earthen, or stone floor, 1 quart of oak sawdust, light a charcoal fire, and put the sawdust over, or ignite with a red hot poker. Put 2 small flat stones close together at one side. Invert the barrel so that the beef hangs over the fire, or rather smouldering sawdust, with just the inch of space given by the stones to admit the air and cause the fire to keep burning, supply it with fresh fuel night and morning for 3 to 6 days, according to size of joint. Leave it the following day to cool, and then press for 3 days under heavy weights, and hang up. When wanted for use, grate ; if it is for foreigners, who like the natural flavour. English people I believe hoil and therefore spoil the meat before grating. If boiled, press after in a screwpress, or with heavy weights. A small quantity at a time should be cooked. But it is far more delicate fresh from the smoking, when of course it is cooked by the heat of the charcoal and oak sawdust. Remove the linen cover, after smoking, and if not for immediate use, sew the meat in a clean bag of fine linen. Some people wash the beef over with lime wash. This keeps the air out, and prevents it turning rusty; but it is apt to rot the canvass. I find that if the meat is dipped in melted paraffin wax, after smoking, it keeps well, and is fresh, sweet and wholesome at292 THE NEW GtJtDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. the end of a couple of years. Hams can also be so pre^ served, the wax being tasteless. To Serve. Grate the beef or cut in small shaves about 2J inches long, and IJ inches wide, as thin as a sheet of white tissue paper, roll and serve, garnished with parsley, lemon rings, or watercress^ For breakfast or as entree garnish. Sausage Meat for Jew's Sausages. Grate the Hamburg beef, add half its weight in minced beef suet, and one sixth of its weight of ground allspice; Pass it through a mincer twice. Beat it well in a mortar.— Dye large polonie skins brown, and fill with the mixture, leaving room for a little swelling. Steam for half to three quarters of an hour. Let it get quite cold, then brush over with boiled olive oil if required to keep, or dip in paraffin wax. To Serve. Cut into as thin rings as it is possible, and lay on a plate, garnish with watercress and pickled eggs, (see page 400). Saveloys. Dye the skins red with Judson's dye, or Hartman*s crimson Salt* Pass twice through the mincer after cutting into dice, say in the proportion of 1 lb. of lean pork, salt and fresh mixed ; \ lb. of pork fat; J lb. of ground rice^ boiled in meat liquor. (Some people use J lb. of sifted bread crumbs, but this is a matter of taste.) Allspice 1 tea- spoonful, pennyroyal dried, powdered and sifted, 1 dessert- spoonful, sage, 3 teaspoonfuls, salt as required. It depends on the ham or bacon used. Fill the skins loosely from the machine feeder, steam 1 hour,—cool and serve. Ham and Chicken Polonie. Dye the skins as above. Prepare a mince of cooked hamHOTEL AND RESTAURANT COOKERY. 293 and chicken, (or tongue and chicken,) to each 1 lb. allow a couple of little button mushrooms, and 1 oz, of butter, or 2 ozs. of ham fat. Mix it well, pass through the mincer, season with pepper, salt, a dust of cayenne and ground cloves. Then fill the skins. Use bread or rice if the material is short, but it keeps longer and tastes sweeter, at the end of the week without. The rice and bread are apt to ferment if kept long. Steam for 1 hour, oil or dip in melted paraffin wax if required for yatching or keeping purposes. Choose small plump legs of Welsh mutton, trim them as hams. Prepare the following for a 4 to 6 lb. leg. Mix and rub this into the meat, turning it every day for 8 to 10 days. Lift it out and wipe it dry. Hang it up for 24 hours, then brush over with strong acid, and polish the skin by oiling, if for sale. Should it receive three coats of acid thoroughly brushed and soaked in, it will keep for 3 years fresh and good, and have a delicious smoked flavour. To Serve. Soak in cold spring water for 12 hours, next wash in fresh water. Boil or steam as for ham, using cold water, and slow boiling—and if preferred at table grated, it must be put in a heavy press whilst hot, and grated when cold and set—used as Breakfast dish^ Entree gar7iish^ or supper New Hampshire Smoked Hams. Ground Allspice, do. Black Pepper, do. Nutmeg, do. Cloves, do. Saltpetre, J oz. i oz. \ oz. i oz. i oz. 8 ozs. 8 ozs. Common Salt, Brown Sugar, Pyroligneous Acid, \ oz. fluid 1 dessertspoofi/ul.294 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. dish. This is a favourite dish amongst German Jews in America, and in Germany, goat hams so preserved are relished. White Puddings. (Plain and Smoked.) Grits soaked 24 hours in plain mutton stock. To every 1 lb. of grits (or sweet coarse Scotch oatmeal) allow 1 lb. of mutton suet, chopped fine, sage, 1 oz., black pepper, \ oz. salt, I oz., thyme powdered, \ oz. Mix these thoroughly with the grits. Fill the bags as for black puddings. Boil or steam for a couple of hours—and serve as Hogs' Puddings for Hors CEuvreSy in Jewish and other families where pork is tabooed. Vegetarians substitute oiled butter stirred into the grits.—They make a capital breakfast dish, when cold, i sliced, cut into 2 in. lengths, dipped in egg and oil batter and fried—garnish with parsley, fried also. N.B. Distinctly understand that grits are not Groats or Emden Groats crushed oats or anything of the sort. They are the whole seeds of the oat divested of husk and are best kiln dried, and can be had either of English or American growth and drying. Mock Fois Gras. Take 1 lb. of lamb, sheep, or calf's liver. Boil in plain salt and water, let it become quite cold, and grate it. Mince an equal quantity of cold roast pork fat, or boiled ham fat but the first is best. Sprinkle over the fat, 1 oz. of ground black pepper, 1 oz. of allspice, J oz. of minced truffles, J oz of button mushroom. Beat them all up in a mortar, and fill them into skins or pot. If in pots run butter over the top of those that are to be used at once, but if for keeping nothing beats an inch or so of paraffin wax melted and poured on.HOTEL AND RESTAURANT COOKERY, 295 Cook's Knives, Carvers, &c. A C;^^generally has two or three cases of knives, some of these may not be in regula-r use, and carving knives in large hotels have often to be stored from one large dinner to another. If they are dipped or coated in paraffin wax, which is pure white and tasteless, and which is used to coat delicate flowers; it will prevent them rusting, particularly at the sea^ side, where the saline particles in the air quickly act on steel goods, especially in foggy and damp weather. To Clean Silver, Kitchen Utensils, 8cc. Do not use mercurial pastes. The best method of clean- sing all silver goods is to make a ley of whitening, soft soap, and common soda, and soft or rain water. Bot'l the goods in this. It will clean the most intricate mouldings of Epergnes^ &c. Rinse them at once in cold soft water, wipe dry with soft rags and polish as usual. This will save many pouncis spent with the jeweller for cleaning, and it does not hurt or destroy electro goods. Quantiiies: 1 lb. of whitening,-J- lb. of soft soap, |- lb. of soda, water 2 gallons. Glass Wash in soda and water, and if a bad colour rub with the old-fashioned blue, or steep in strong blue water, this restores cut or moulded glass and makes it bright, rinse in clear cold water, drain and wipe dry.296 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. CHAPTER VIIL Roasting and Serving. ^HE great essentials of roast meat are, First, that it 1 should be tender. Second, juicy. Third, the outside crisp without being tough or horny. Fourth, that there should be no trace of sappiness or soddenness, such as we find on baked meats where steam generates in the oven and so affects the cuticle. Roast beef, or mutton, &c., should be crisp outside, not burnt or dried up an inch deep, but having just a slight delicate covering of fine golden hued casing over the fat, and a chestnut brown covering on the lean. When the carver inserts his knife into the joint, the outer case over the fat should give way with a slight crackle. It is far from creditable to the roasting cook, when the carver has to saw at a horny substance, or his knife sinks into a mass of flabby, dirty coloured, fat burnt here; gravy sodden there; and with a general appearance of bad health about the joint. To roast well therefore is an art, and although it sounds so comparatively simple, yet it requires knowledge. It will not do to put the joint into a cold, or half cold gas roaster, or in front of a dull fire, to let them get warm together. It extracts the goodness from the meat, destroys the flavour, and is not roasting. Hot bright fires in the open range. The hot air ovens, lighted 10 or 20 minutes at full power, and then the joint may be put in to cook. The rule, as I have seen it expressed in some of the children's teaching books is good, of putting the joint close to the fire, for the first five minutes to form a case and seal up the juices, and I only wish some of the professed women cooks would believe in it.HOTEL AND RESTAURANT COOKERY.. 297 Another important point is the gravies. They should all be made and ready before the joint is dished. The slovenly method of some, " would be clever" cooks, of dishing the meat and sprinkling salt on the joint, or bird, and pouring hot water; or hot water and dripping pan grease, over, and calling that mess gravy, is simply want of common know- ledge, with laziness, and art and ignorance combined, which we must pity whilst we condemn. It only proves our theory that every man (and woman,) should serve their proper apprenticeship in good kitchens, and under well trained men cooks, who are scientists and artists in their profession. Gravy should be poured round a joint not over. The sweet little tale of sprinkling salt over a joint before roasting, just to season it," is very nice for the amateur to theorise upon, but it is not the kind of thing the scientific cook countenances. The novice may prefer to find the juices of the meat extracted by the salt, and transferred from the joint to the dripping pan. The cook and the diner prefer the juices in the meat. A little time and thought spent in studying the properties of foods, and their adjuncts is never wasted. And to the man (or woman,) who intends to make his mark in the cookery art, it would be wiser to study thus. If some of our young kitchen workers, spent less time at betting and billiard rooms, after hours, and the women shunned the flirtings of " Sixpenny hops" to really qualify in the trade, we should have a better all-round corps of cooks. Continued basting is practically of great value in roasting, it prevents hardness of the outer skin, and the evaporation of the juices of the meat. The fat supplying the moisture for evaporation. At some Hotels and Cafes where the Chef is not the buyer, and the means are limited, committees are apt to298 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. supply rough coarse joints for roasting, and the cook has to prepare them as best he can. For instance at a Cafe not a thousand miles from the nearest large town to Sandringham, I know a Cafe where the Chef in charge, has to supply hot roast beef daily from a piece of the **hump" of newly killed meat. Very rarely a tough leg of mutton figures on the list. Of course this requires doctoring. He has to prepare the steamer, and when it is quite hot, steam the joint for an hour, or more, according to weight. Have a bright roasting fire ready. Literally soak the lean meat in melted dripping, put it on the "spit** or **jack** before a very clear fire, and roast, basting more frequently than usual. Newly killed meat, or tough joints, steeped in vinegar for a few hours, are improved. The vinegar softens the fibrine. Carbonate of soda will soften a tough steak, but it is not penetrating enough for a large joint; besides the cost of covering a steak with carbonate of soda at 4d. per lb., and a large joint is very different. Common vinegar is the less expense of the two, and the liquor can be used after for other marinades, &c., and is more searching than the car- bonate, where there is bulk. In cooking birds by this method remember, game and poultry should if possible not be on the spit together, as the dripping will flavour the poultry, unless you wish to serve a pheasant and a farm-yard hen as a brace, or 1 partridge and 2 pigeons as a leash. Then hang the real game over the mock and baste. If the 2 must be on the spit at one time, and it is required to keep the flavours distinct, hang the poultry over the game, baste the game with the contents of the dripping pan, but have an earthenware dish, with very hot melted dripping in one corner of the "jack*' or by the "spit," and baste the turkey pullet, or whatever bird you may be dressing with it, using a separate ladle, or long spoon,HOTEL AND RESTAURANT COOKERY. 299 Sturgeon and Jack Pike Are the only two fish that are served roasted. A hand- some cut in the close if unstufFed, or below the shoulders and a little way into the close if it is to be stuffed. A delicate veal stuffing is best, and in the case of the Pike it should steep in a marinade of vinegar, salt, pepper, and water for a few hours. This takes off the earthy taste. Also the membrane near the bone, and lining the inside where the entrails lay, should be removed. Boiling water and salt will free it. An adept can clean the Jack without ripping the fish open, and yet avoid breaking the membranes. Fasten it to the spit or Jack by binding with tape or cord, cover it with melted fat. Suetine is about the best substitute for butter I know, in this sort of work. There must be a smart fire and the basting regularly and properly attended to,' as if neglected, and the tapes are scorched, down the joint will fall. Fry bread crumbs till brown, and when the fish flakes begin to leave the centre bone, lift the sturgeon or jack pike on to a dish, brush rapidly over with raw egg, dust over as quickly as possible with the fried crumbs. Place the fish in front of the fire for a few minutes, and then serve on a very hot silver dish. Garnish with lemon. Fried crumbs on separate dish, and good gravy from a brown roux, with a glass of red wine or marsala at choice, mixed with it. N.B. The fat in which the sifted crumbs are fried must be boiling, i, e,y quite still and silent, before they are put in ; they are drained on a wire sieve, and turned with a fork in front of the fire. The boiling fat would destroy a hair or tammy sieve. In Roasting as I have before mentioned, the method of basting is a great essential to having the meat juicy and tender. It is a custom of many cooks to " Froth" the300 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC, joints. This is done by dredging flour over the meat or bird J of an hour before serving. Others baste with butter, flour, and brown for the last quarter. In the practices of roasting, cooks vary; and very often these variations are caused by the whims and fancies of the people who employ them. Tradition tells us in our kitchens that one of your English kings in the Georgian Era, had his joints roasted by a slow transmission of heat. It was kept at a great distance from the fire during the whole process, so as to keep the meat tender and juicy. But Ude who surely was an authority, and our own modern Scientists of England, France, and Germany, agree that the joint should be placed near to the fire at first to seal in the juices, and then cooked not at a great distance from, but at a moderate, say 8 to 12 or 15 inches according to the size of the joint, and strength of the fire. Fat joints should be protected by paper at first; so also should delicate birds, lamb, veal, &c., and then browned before dishing. The Spitting too of game requires a word. It is a mistake to spit woodcocks, and yet I have seen it done and by capable men in other departments. Fasten them to the spit or jack so that the trail may fall on the roast underneath. Woodcocks and snipes are trussed with their own bills as skewers. The feet and legs blanched, skinned, and laid on the breast, after drawing through each other; serve on toast with fresh or pickled orange as garnish, and brown sauce in a tureen. Ortolans too are very often badly roasted. You want to keep the trail inside; if spitted lengthwise, the juice runs out, but either attach them by a wire gripper, or use a bird cradle, or spit sidewise on a small bird spit, and attach to the main spit as usual, Ortolans are dipped in butter, thatHOTEL AND RESTAURANT COOKER^. 3OI has been oiled, (or salad oil) tossed in bread crumbs, and then roasted. By some Chefs they are first steeped in ver- juice, (the juice of green grapes) wiped dry, then oiled, crumbed, and roasted* They are served with lemon rings and fried crumbs. Hare is best roasted after plucking, but if skinned, it is exquisite, larded with a moderate sized needle, deep stitches, and using smoked Cumberland^ or Wiltshire bacon fat for the purpose. Some baste the Hare with porter, others with milk, I use only good dripping; and if the game is high, soak it in milk for 6 or 8 hours previous to stuffing. But ahove all keep it well basted. Serve with rich brown gravy sauce, and red currant jelly in the proper course. Port wine is proper to add to the stuffing and sauce. Pheasants should have the head of the male bird wrap- ped in one or two thicknesses of oiled writing paper, and the tail plume put in after the cooking is done. They should have the breast covered with buttered whitey brown tissue paper, till ten minutes before serving. The colour should be that of maize or Indian corn. Bread sauce is the English accompaniment. I had nearly written poultice, but try a good brown gravy, and a wine and jelly sauce in separate tureens, as at the clubhouses, and high class dinners, and leave the bread abomination out of the question, and your patrons will be more than grateful. Pheasants should be served in pairs, i, e. a brace. Partridges are generally sent in to table as a leash, when roast, t. e, in groups of three. They require the legs blanching in boiling water, and the outer skin removing. The toes cut off at the middle joint. The plumage of the red partridge is left on the head, and it is dressed with paper before roasting as for cock-pheasant. They are served302 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. on a bed of fried crumbs, and good brown gravy in a separate boat. They should not be over done but well hasted* Roast Turkey. Roast a hundred chestnuts, divest them of the outer husk and inner skin. Pass them through a wire sieve, and whilst hot beat them up with J lb. of butter or suetine, season with pepper and salt, the juice of a lemon and the grated rind. Stuff the bird, lard the breast and thighs with strips of smoked bacon fat, using a medium needle. Truss the bird and roast it carefully, well basting during the process. Serve with sausages or sausage meat balls which are more delicate round as a decoration. To make the balls, roll the sausage meat into balls as large as a horse chestnut of fair size, brush with egg, dip in finely sifted white crumbs, and fry in boiling fat, drain and use with pickled barberries by way of decoration. Pickled cherries or cherry plums make a brilliant variation to the ball garnish. White cream, bechamel, or oyster sauce, and good gravy can be served with this. For Ordinary Joints, Spit as close to the bone as possible, and when done, remember the hints relative to gravy given at the beginning of the chapter, so that your patrons may say Bravo! Long live the cook who rules the Roast!!HOTEL AND RESTAURANT COOKERY. 303 CHAPTER IX. Pastry, Confectionery, &c. WE may divide the art of pastry making into seven heads. They are all in general use in high class and hotel kitchens. They are severally as follows: No. I. Puff Paste. (1.) Uses : Oyster patties, vol-au-vents, tartlets without moulds (t\ e. tins), Swiss horns, and general high class patisserie. Ingredients: Superfine Extra White Pastry Flour, 3 lbs. „ Vienna ,9 4 lbs. Chip eggs, .4. Lemon Zest, J Pint. Cold Water, As required. Unsalted Butter, 6 lbs. High dry the flour by placing it in a cool oven for an hour or so. It must not turn colour, only the less damp or mois- ture there is in it, the lighter and more successful the pastry will be. When cool pass through a fine sieve. Mix the flours in the sifting. The Vienna flour, No. 1 quality is self- raising. Mix it into a light dough, with 4 "chip" eggs, strained, \ pint of lemon zest (or lime juice refined), and as little water as can possibly be helped. It is a great mistake to make the dough as it now stands too moist. It has to ab- sorb the butter as well as the other liquids. The acid must not be neglected, it acts as a sort of rising power on the fer- mentative substance in Vienna flour. Roll the paste out after mixing. Dredge the pin lightly after rolling; roll the butter to a level even layer^ and lay it gently on the centre of the paste, wrap the 2 ends over it. Rough handling must be304 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. avoided. Roll out firmly and evenly lengthwise, fold in 3 and roll out again, keeping the edges, or folds, always in a line with the paste pin. This makes what we term 2 turns.'* Fold in 3 exactly and roll out as before. After this, the third time, put the paste in the refrigerator, or in a draught in a cold cellar. The coldest spot in the house should be selected for pastry-making, especially puff paste. Let it stay in the cold 15 to 20 minutes, to let it creep," i. e.^ rise. Roll out 3 times more as before directed; then once (making 7 rolls), to the required thickness for the articles to be made. If for val-aU'VentSy dip the proper cutter in hot water and stamp them out with an even, regular pressure, on all parts. Place on trays, brush over with orange-flower water, or rose water mixed with egg glaze; put into the oven and bake. If a proper set pastry oven, the output will be all right. But some ovens, require the door slightly ajar, or the paste comes out flat, irregular in shape and badly coloured. In mixing use a steel fork or a knife, it acts like a dough mixer, if you have a thorough little bijou machine so much the better, if you are heavy handed* No. I. Puff Paste. (2.) Uses as in No. 1. Ingredients: Vienna Flour, 2 lbs. Butter, 2 lbs. Lemon, 1 Eggs, 2 Cold Water, As required. High dry and mix the flour into a paste with eggs, strained juice of lemon and a little cold water; having reserved about J lb.; put the mixture on to the ice, or aside without rolling, whilst you cut the butter in lumps, as large as walnuts, andHOTEL AND RESTAURANT COOKERY. 305 work each lump out flat with the flour. Roll out the paste very thin, into a well, as it were, and lay the thin flattened piece of floured butter over till the whole has a layer of butter covering it, and then roll it up into a long thin roll. Lay pieces of the prepared butter alo7tg the roll, and then double it in three. Roll it out six times after this. At the finish of the first three, it can stay several hours or all night to digest the butter. In the morning give it two more turns and fold- ings, and the last time roll to the thickness required. Either of these receipts have turned out well in our kitchens, and may be made in larger or smaller quantities as required, either by multiplying or dividing the proportions already given. To glaze, brush over with a beaten up egg, or egg and hot milk. No. II. Short Puff or Rough Puff. Uses : Sweet tarts, turnovers, Banbury cakes, and second class open tartlets, &c. This pastry is only used for sweet goods. Ingredients : High dry the flour, and sift when cold. Rub into it 1 lb. of pure lard, firm, free from water and ''loading," or else use butter. Make into a firm, smooth dough, using a knife and chopping into it, J lb. of good first class unsalted butter. Add also 2 ozs. of white sugar. Make it a rather stiff" dough, like No. 1.; but not a hard crumbly mixture, full of knots. Whip the white of two eggs to a stiff" foam, and work them Best White Pastry Flour, ,, Vienna, H lbs. n lbs. 1 lb. ilb. 2 ozs. 2. Pure Lard, Butter, Sifted White Sugar, Whites of Eggs Water, As required.306 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. into the pastry. Flour the marble, slate, or wooden board. **Pin" out the paste lightly, but firmly and evenly; fold it in three, place it in a cool place covered with a cloth, for an hour or so; roll out twice more and cover the fruit tarts or use in whatever way you may require. To Glaze Rough Puff Pastries. 1. Brush over with orange water; and dust castor sugar over, set in the oven for just a second or two,—no more, if the oven is quick. 2. Brush over with rose water, and dust castor sugar over, set as above, for dressing Banbury cakes. 3. Brush with water, and dust castor sugar over. Set as No. 1. 4. Honey, 1 teaspoonful; water, 1 dessertspoonful. Mix and brush over; set. 5. White castor or icing sugar, J lb.; water, 2 table- spoonfuls; white of egg whipped to a foam. Dissolve the sugar in water over the fire, boil until it comes to the fine thread. Lift off the fire and whisk in the egg foam, beat until it is nearly cold, then ice or glaze the tart. 6. Brush the tart with whipped white of egg; dust sugar over, set in the oven mouth. No. III. Flaky Paste. Uses : Meat pies, sausage rolls of the first quality, croquets, American meat snacks, &c. This pastry is orily used for meat goods. Ingredients: High Dried Flour, 3^- lbs. Clarified Dripping, (or Lard) i lb. Pastry Butter, li lbs. Water, As required. To 3 lbs. of high dried and sifted flour, rub in f lb. ofHOTEL AND RESTAURANT COOKERY. 307 clarified beef dripping. Free from water, of course, and "trained," e. melted in the oven in an open jar; after lift- ing off the water (see page 448). Take IJ lbs. of pastry butter, cut into slices and work out into thin layers in the extra i lb. of flour. When it is all worked into sheets, lay them in four equal heaps. Mix the 3 lbs. of flour into a fair dough with water. Flour the board, and pin, i. e. roll it out into a thin sheet of even thickness and as square as possible; cut into five equal strips. On one of the strips lay evenly the one fourth,—or one pile,—of the little sheets of worked butter. Lay another strip of paste on the top, another pile of butter sheets over, then another strip of pastry, more butter, then paste butter sheets on the top, and finish with the fifth and last strip of paste ; roll it out; dust very slightly with flour; double in three; roll out again, double in three once more, and roll out to the required size. Cut to the shape wanted, glaze and bake. To Glaze Flaky Paste. 1. Beat up an egg and brush over the paste before put- ting in the oven. 2. Beat up an egg, add an equal quantity of warm milk, brush over the paste before putting in the oven. 3. After cooking, and whilst still hot, brush over with melted brown glaze, or strong meat stock, return to the oven for 1 minute to dry. 5. Weil soaked gelatine in milk, dissolved over the fire, and whilst hot, brush over the pastry after it is cooked and browned; return to the oven to dry. 6. Gelatine soaked in water, dissolved over the fire, finish as No. 5. 7. Brush over with milk after cooking, finish as No. 0.3o8 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. To Sweeten Fruit Tarts. The sugar should be laid about the middle of the fruit. It should not contain too much sugar or liquid, as it boils over and gives the pastry a burnt flavour, as well as spoiling the oven floor. Syrup in stock as prepared by Bacchus using coarse sugar instead of refined, (see page 87,) is very useful. When the tart is cooked, lift it out of the oven, and at once pour some syrup to the fruit, using a tunstal for the purpose. This is for high class goods Gravies for Meat Pies. Follow the same rule, they are better for a little in- serted on their being taken out of the oven. In a good kitchen or pie bakery, there is always a supply of good stock to be had, which is put in when the pies are nearly cold. The gravy should be made from bones, or strengthened, so that when cold it will jelly. Pies and Tarts. Pies are properly in the olden acceptation of the word, all covered goods, whether meat or fruit. Custom and fashion thus distinguish the varieties. PieSy meat in dishes covered with paste. Raised PieSy game, pork, mutton, veal and ham, beef, &c. Tarts, fruits in pie dishes covered with paste. Tartlets, open fruit or jam tarts, whether large or small. PastieSy small flat covered pies or tarts. No. IV. Raised Pie Crust. (1.) Uses : Melton Mowbray Pies, pork pies, veal and ham, chicken and ham, mutton and beef pies, of the first class.HOTEL AND RESTAURANT COOKERY. 3O9 Ingredients:— Household Flour, Lard, Water, 5 lbs. 2* lbs. As required. The cause of frequent failure in raised pies is that the paste is frequently too moist, and no allowance is made for the fat. Boil the lard and water together. Have the flour Mgh dried, i, e.y put into the oven and baked without its turning colour, and when cold passed through a fine wire, or tammy sieve. A hole is made in the centre of the flour; the boiling water and lard poured in together. Then it is mixed and moulded on a wooden mould, or line the tin moulds. It requires thorough kneeding and is a different sort of work to the finer sorts of pastry. No. IV. Raised Pie Crust. (2.) Uses: Raised gooseberry, currant, cranberry, and apple fruit tarts, and second class meat goods, as mutton pies, &c. Ingredients:— One cannot give a definite quantity of water, as flour differs so much in capacity for absorption. Practice and the use of a little judgment will determine the quantity. Mix these ingredients as in No. 1 Raised Crust. Mould, fill with fruit, lay the sugar on the top, put on the lid, pinch down and bake. Household Dried Flour, Dripping or Lard, Water, boiling. 2 lbs. i lb. As required. No. IV. Raised Pie Crust. (3.) Uses: Cheap meat pies, beef, or mutton, or fruit tarts.3IO THE NEAV GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC, Ligmlu nis:— Dried and sifted Household Flour, 14 lbs. Dripping, 6 lbs. Cold Water, As required. Mix to a stiffish paste, roll out, fold in three, and let it lie all night. In the morning roll out into a fairly thick web, and divide into three. Sub-divide two thirds into 72 pieces, and form into little cases, the other and remaining third into lids for the cases—fill with meat and bake. To Glaze Raised Pies. Proceed as for glazing flaky paste, (see page 307) No. V. Italian Pastry. (1.) Uses : Vol-au-vents, patties, or any puff paste goods. higredients:— Vienna Flour, As required. Sweet Salad Oil, 2 Wineglassfuls. Powdered Sugar, 1 oz. Orange, or Rose Water, 1 TablespoonfuL Yolk of Eggs, 3. White of Egg, 1 Whipped to foam. Lemon Juice, 1 Dessertspoonful. Put the eggs into a basin, stir in the oil, a drop or two at a time, stirring the whole time, next the strained juice of half a large, or the whole of a small lemon, or a dessertspoonful of lime juice. Have a breakfast cup full of high dried and sifted Vienna flour. Sift it into the egg and oil mixture, stirring with a silver fork until a paste of good consistancy, and firm in texture, has been made. Form it into a ball, and see that it leaves the sides of the bowl clean, cover with a cloth and leave for an hour in a cool place. Dust in more flour at the end of an hour, roll out lightly, stamp3^1 HOTEL AND RESTAUKANT COOKERY. out into vol-au-vent, oyster or other cases as may be re- quired. Brush over with egg, put into a good hot pastry oven, and bake as for pufF paste. No. V. Italian Pastry. (2.) Uses : Mock, high class goods; puffs, oyster patties, &c. Ingredients:— Finest Quality of Pastry Flour, 3 lbs. Saffron, 2 Drams. Powdered Ammonia, i oz. Sweet Olive Oil, li Pints. Chip Egg, 1 Beaten up. Lime Juice, (or White Wine Vinegar) 1 Dessertspoonful. Cold Water, As required. Steep the saffron in a tablespoonful of boiling water. When it has soaked 10 minutes, strain off the water, and add to the beaten up egg. Sift the powdered ammonia into the flour, mix it thoroughly. Then work into a dough with the oil and eggs—make it a fairly stiff paste. Let it lie in the cool for an hour or two; then work up—roll out; cut with cutters dipped in boiling water, and bake as soon as possible in a proper baker's oven. No. V. Italian Pastry. (3.) Uses : Meat pasties, and meat pie crusts, &c. Ingredients:— Self-raising Flour, 3 lbs. Sweet Salad Oil, i Pint. Lard, or Butterine, 1 lb. Saffron Steeped, 2 Drams. Boiling Water, 1 Tablespoonful. Cold Water, As required. Soak the saffron in 1 tablespoonful of boiling water for 10312 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. minutes. Strain and use in mixing the dough. Stir the oil into the flour, when it becomes dry rub it till the particles are well mixed throughout the whole. Then proceed as in No. III. viz: Making the flour into paste with water, cutting into five strips, working the lard or butterine into sheets, and finishing as before directed, (page 307) No. VI. Confectioner's Paste. Uses : Art work, such as pieces montees, castles, bulwarks, rocks, &c. Ingredients: Fine Roller High-dried Flour, (say,) 3 lbs. Lawn-sifted White Sugar, If lbs. White of Eggs strained, As required. Sifting the flour when cold, with the sugar through a tammy sieve into a bowl, is the cleanest way. Work it into a smooth paste with a spatula. It must be firm, smooth, and yet not too soft. Dust the board ; lay the paste on it; cover with a cloth and leave it for four hours to assimilate the ingredients. Roll out with a heavy oak pin, in a regular even roll. Get rid of air bladders. Roll the paste to l-8th of an inch thick- ness. Have your cardboard shapes ready; lay them on the paste ; cut round with a sharp knife ; lay on oiled baking tins and bake in a moderately heated oven. Should blisters appear to be rising, oil a paper, put it over the shapes and lay a heavy flat board on the top, when it comes out of the oven. When the pastry is cold it will be found that the blisters have disappeared and the paste quite even and flat. To join the design together, brush the sides or edges with strong solution of dissolved gelatine which is half cold. To frost or crystallize the work; before it is joined, brush it over with white of egg, or gelatine dissolved in water, and dust fine, rough, or centrifugal sugar over. Dry in a cool oven, then join as above.HOTEL AND RESTAURANT COOKERY. 313 Meat Pies. Pate de Biftek Anglais. (Beefsteak Pie. No. i.) Ingredients: Beefsteak, Ox Kidney, Sweetherbs, 2 lbs. i lb. 1 Dessertspoonful. 1 Teaspooiiful. 2 Tablespoonfuls. As required. Pepper and Salt, mixed, Baked Flour, (brown) Stock or Water, Mix dry sifted herbs; thyme, marjoram, parsley, with the baked brown flour, the pepper and salt on a plate. Cut the beef into strips of 3J to 4 inches long and 3 wide. Beat it out well. Dip each piece in the flour mixture. Divide the kidney equally into as many pieces as you have strips of beef, put a piece on one end of a strip; roll it up loosely and place in the pie dish, with the edge under, so as to keep the roll in place; repeat this till the dish is full; not too high piled up. Three parts fill with stock or water. Put on a crust. No. III. (see page 306) add more stock when the pie is taken out of the oven. Roses, buds, berries, tassels, leaves, &c., are all suitable ornaments for the decoration of the crust. Pate de Biftek et Huitres. (Beefsteak and Oyster Pie. No. 2.) Ingredients: Beefsteak, Oysters, Sweet herbs. Lemon Rind, Pepper and Salt, Baked Brown Flour, 2 lbs. 1 dozen. 1 Dessertspoonful. h 1 Teaspoonful. 1 Tablespoonful,314 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. Proceed exactly as in No. 1. Beefsteak pie; using oysters instead of kidney. If oysters cannot be had, or are not in season, salsify root boiled can be substituted. The grated lemon rind to be mixed with flour. Decorate, bake, glaze, add stock and serve hot or cold. Pate de Biftek a la Roseberry. (The Roseberry Beefsteak Pie No. 3.) Ingredients: Parboil the sweetbreads. Cut the steak as in No. I. Beef- steak pie; pound it well but do not dip in the flour. Lay a slice of sweetbread and a strip of forcemeat stufling on it; roll up; //len dip in the seasoned flour, and lay in the pie- dish. Cover with flaky paste, No. III. (page 306). Cook and serve as for No. I. Beefsteak, Throat Sweetbreads, Truflie Forcemeat, Baked and Seasoned Flour, n lbs. 1 Pair, ilb. 2 Tablespoonfuls. Pate de Pigeon a L' Editeur. (The Editor's Pigeon Pie.) Ingredients: Wood Pigeons, Tame Pigeon, Beefsteak, Hard-boiled Eggs, Raw, „ Forcemeat, Baked Flour, Pepper, Salt, Bay-leaf, Stock, 1 Dessertspoonful. 1 Teaspoon ful. 2. 1. ilb. 2. 1. 1. As required.HOTEL AND RESTAURANT COOKERY. 315 Cut off the pigeons' feet. Pour boiling water on, then remove the skin from the legs and claws; also the nails; dry them and lay on one side. Dress the birds, draw and quarter. Parboil the livers and use them in making the forcemeat, which should contain, mushrooms, cold minced meat, or fowl; a few sweet herbs, as thyme, parsley, marjoram; lemon rind, spices, and an equal quantity of bread crumbs. Mix with an egg. Beat the steak and dip in the flour. This keeps it juicy. Cut into 2 inch squares, lay it in the bottom of the dish. Lay the force- meat over, then the pigeons, with pieces of hard-boiled eggs quartered, between and fairly distributed through the pie. Place 1 bay-leaf about the centre of the pieces, so that it may be amongst the boiling gravy, and so impart a delicate flavour to the whole. Fill up 2 parts with stock; cover, and orna- ment with flaky paste, No. III., and serve hot or cold, with the little claws sticking through the centre of the crust. Add more hot jelly gravy after it comes out of the oven. Pate de Canard. (Duck Pie. No. i.) Ingredients: Roast Ducks, Forcemeat, Stock from the bones. Roast the ducks, or use the cold roast ducks that have been cut at table. Prepare a truffle forcemeat. When the birds are cold, slice off" the flesh in delicate thin slices, as broad and as long as possible; this is capital carving practice. Lay a strip of forcemeat on each, roll it up and lay them on a plate as they are done, till the case is ready. Boil down the bones with a little stock for jelly, to add to the rolls, the longer the better. Make a pie case as for a Melton pie; lay 2. 1 lb.3l6 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. in the rolls; half fill it with stock; put on the lid; glaze, and ornament. For paste use No. IV. (see page 308). Pick off every atom of meat from the bones, pass this with the ham and livers through the mincer, and again a second time with the herbs, spices, (cayenne a dust, pepper, salt, mace,) and grated lemon rind. Prepare paste, No. IV. (see page 308). Fill the case, adding enough stock to 3 parts fill it, cover it over, ornament with leaves, stars, &c., brush over with egg or glaze after it comes out of the oven. This is an excellent Pate for picnics, balls, suppers, luncheons. Turkey, game, fowl, and ham, chicken, and tongue, made as Nos. 1 and 2, Pate de Canard will all be found useful in utilizing cold goods. Pate de Canard. (Duck Pie. No. 2.) Ingredients: Remains of Ducks, Grated Lemon Rind, Powdered Sweet herbs, Spices, Mushrooms, Ham, 1, 2, or 3. I. 1 Teaspoonful. To taste. \ oz. ilb. Pate de Legume. (Julienne Vegetable Pie..) VEGETARIAN. Ingredients: Julienne, sec. Milk, Sweet herbs. 2 ozs. 1 Quart. 1 Teaspoonful. 2. To taste. 1 Teacupful. Eggs, Pepper and Salt, Bread Crumbs, Cream,IIOTEL AND RESTAURANT COOKERY. 31^ Put the dry Julienne in a large basin. Put the milk into a pan over the fire; as it rises in the pan, pour it over the vegetables and leave them to soak 1 hour. Cook them in a Bain Marie for about half an hour, then mix them with the herbs, bread crumbs, and beat in the two eggs and the cream, (or a piece of butter). Grease and line a pie dish with paste No. III. Put in the vegetable mixture, cover with paste; ornament as for meat pie and glaze with egg; bake, and if it is liked add more hot milk. Use de Chollett's Julienne, it is the best I know of. Pate de Gibier a la Duchesse D*Albany. The Duchess of Albany Game Pie. Ingredients:— Cold Cooked;— Roast Grouse, Cut into neat joints. Black Game, „ „ Partridge, „ „ Pheasant, »> » Woodcocks, ,, Moorhens, &:c. ,, „ Forcemeat, i lb. York Ham, boiled, J Dozen slices. Aspic jelly, coloured, red, brown, yellow, green; garden, or water cress, olives. Glaze, Melted. . Take the joints of game, and trim them neatly, and place in handsome cases of paste No. 1. Lay them in pyramid form, and set together with glaze. Place rolls of pink ham in which cooked forcemeat stuffing is laid amongst the rolls. Have thin sheets of different coloured aspics, cut out in the shape of oak leaves, to form a wreath; here and there place a small olive to imitate an acorn, A spray or two of water3l8 THE ^TEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. cress amongst the joints, and little heaps of minced jelly amongst them as garnish, and to relieve the sameness of colour. It uses up also the aspic left from the leaves. Pate de Perigord. (Perigord Pie.) Ingredients:— All kinds of winged game. Cooked ham. Forcemeat. Consomme, or aspic. Use only the breasts and legs of the game. It should consist of Black game. Pheasants. Partridges, Wood and Waterfowl. If short of game, poultry, such as small hens and pigeons, may be used. The forcemeat is made of the livers of the birds; the trails of the snipes and woodcocks, finely sifted, whole meal bread crumbs, sweet herbs powdered, ground spices, minced truffles, and bacon fat. This is well mixed and bound to- gether with an egg. Use paste No. IV. line a mould with it. First oiling the mould however. When the paste is nicely filled into the case, line it in turn, top and sides, with thin slices of cooked York ham ; over the ham put a layer of forcemeat. Lay in the pieces of game, and fill up the pie with them. Pour a good rich consomme, or aspic, melted, over, lay forcemeat on the top slices of ham, and cover with paste. Brush over with glaze — ornament, bake and reglaze with brown glaze, (see page 307) When it is cold serve.HOTEL AND RESTAURANT COOKERY. 319 Pate de Poulet. (Chicken Pie.) Ingredients:—• Chicken, Remains cold. Tongue, Canned. Salt, Parsley, Flap Mushrooms, \ lb. Stock, i Pint. Line a pie dish with paste No. III. (page 306) Peel and lay in one half of the mushrooms, sprinkle with salt, pepper, and strew a little chopped parsley over. Line the sides of the dish with slices of canned sheep's tongues cut in fine delicate shaves. Fill up with chicken and rolls of tongue, with a mushroom, or portion of one duly seasoned inside. Three parts fill the pie dish with stock, cover over with paste, decorate, cook, glaze, and serve hot, with greenpeas as an accompaniment. Petit Pate de Poulet. (Patties of Chicken. Ingredients:— Chicken, White Stock, Cream, Lemon Peel, Spices, Egg, Tongue or Ham, Cold remains. i Pint. 1 Tablespoonful. ^ 1 Square inch. To Taste. L i Quantity to Chicken. Cut the chicken flesh from the bones and mince into dice, also i quantity of tongue or ham. Put into a saucepan the lemon and white stock, let it come to the boil. Mix in the cornflour, previously moistened with the cream. Put in the326 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. mince, stir it round till it is quite hot. Break an egg into a cup, beat it up a little, and stir it into the chicken sauce, spice to taste, and lift out the lemon rind. Fill patty cases of No. III. paste, (page 306) that have been baked in patty pans with dummies instead of the meat inside. Serve hot or cold, garnish if the latter, with minced aspic jelly, red and yellow on the top. If hot, strew minced parsley over the top. Bruice the cloves, put the water, sugar, cloves and cinna- mon, into a saucepan, and let the sugar be dissolving whilst the apples are being peeled and cut into rings. Then put them also into the pan, put on the lid, and let them stew slowly till they are tender. Soak for an hour or two 1 oz. of gelatine in red wine. Wlien the apples are done, pass them through a wire sieve. Taste and find if they require more sugar, if so, add it now, return the apples to the pan with the soaked gelatine. Stir it till the gelatine melts. Then pour into a block tin mould. If you prefer the jelly of a deep red hue, add a sufficient quantity of cochineal to make it the colour you wish. GATEUX. FRUIT GATEAUX. Gateau des Pommes. (Apple Gateau.) Ingredients:— Codling Apples, Sugar, Gelatine, Cloves, Cinnamon, Water, Red Wine, 2 lbs, ilh. 1 oz. 6 Bruised. 1 inch. i Pint. 1 Glass.HOTEL AND RESTAITRANT COOKERY. 32 1 Gateau des Cerise. (Cherry Gateau.) ingredients:— Red Cherries, White Heart Cherries, Bitter Almonds, Sugar, Angelica, Gelatine, Water, 1 oz. i Pint. lib. ilb. 6 Blanched, ilb. 2 Thin Rings. Draw out the stones of the red cherries, and crack one half. Put the cherries, cracked stones, sugar, and J pint of water into a stewing jar. Set it in a pan of water, and cook the cherries till they will make a puree, and the kernels are soft—than pass through a sieve. Soak the gelatine in the other J pint of water; and when the puree is made put it over the fire, melt it, and use some of it to fix the decora- tions of the mould which may stand in cold water, or on ice, if the weather be hot. Blanch the almonds by pouring boiling water over them, and slipping them out of the brown skin Dip them in the glaze. Lift them out with a skewer, and put them in position at the bottom of the mould; so also with the rings of angelica. Stew the white heart cherries gently that whilst tender they will not burst or break.—Dip them also in the gelatine, and fix in the mould. Then stir the rest of the gelatine to the cherry gateau. Stir till nearly on the point of setting, and then pour into the mould. Serve when cold, with whipped cream, or Devon- shire clotted cream.32 2 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. Gateau des GroseiUes. (Gooseberry Gateau,) Ingredients t Green Gooseberries, Spinach Juice, Sugar, Cloves, Coriander Seed, Water, Gelatine, 2 lbs. i Cupful. ^Ib. 6. i Teaspoonful. \ Pint. 1 oz. Pick the gooseberries; put the water, sugar, and spices on to boil, and dissolve the sugar; strain and add the goose- berries, and stew till tender. Keep the fruit as whole as pos- sible ; drain off the liquor; dissolve 1 oz. of soaked gelatine in the liquor, strained off the gooseberries. Add about half a teacupful of spinach juice, spinach leaves well pounded in a mortar and the juice pressed through a sieve, or else pre- pared vegetable green colour. Stir till nearly cold, work in the gooseberries, put into a mould. Let it set on the ice. Turn out as for jelly; serve with cream or custard round. Gateau of Currants^ (red, white, and black,) may be made as above, also, bilberry^ rhubarb, apricotsy &c., may be made as for apple gateau, and served with cream custard, or if for children, thin corn flour and milk sauce, about the consistency of cream. For catering purposes for a large number of young people, the gateau takes the place of more expensive fruit jellies, calves* feet, &c., &c., and milk-cream the place of cream or custard. Freeman*s Custard Powder may be quite safely used for Tarts, &c., and is as cheap and wholesome as corn flour.HOTEL AND RESTAURANT COOKERY. TARTS, &c. Tarte des Fruits, Sec. (Tart of Dried Fruits.) Ingredients: Puff Paste Case, Dried Cherries, Apricot halves, Angelica, Macaroons, Bananas, Cream, Orange Flower Water, Sugar, No. 1. (page 304). 12. 6. 3 Rings, ilb. 2 Sliced 1 Pint. 2 Tablespoonfuls. 1 oz. Make a vol-au-vent case of No. I. paste, (page 304) frost with sugar and egg as in notes to Rough Puff, (page 306) scald and sweeten the cream, stir in the fruits, add the orange flower water. Lay half the macaroons in the bottom of the case, fill up with cream mixture, lay the rest of the biscuit on the top. When cold serve, and decorate the edge with preserved barberries, candied fruits, or heaps of bright sweet jellies minced and laid in rings round. Tourte des Poirs a la Gladstone. (The Gladstone Pear Pie or Tart.) Ingredients: Pare the fruit, cut out the core with a cutter, fill up with sponge cake and then moisten it with cowslip wine. Lay Cooking Pears, Stale Sponge Cake, Pearl Sugar, Cowslip Wine, Water, Rough Puff, Orange Flower Water, 8 or 12. As required. 4 ozs. 1 Glass. As required. No. in. (page 306) 1 Tablespoonful.324 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. the pears when dressed in a dish, add the orange flower water, or one or two leaves of the orange tree. Strew the sugar over the fruit, add water to half fill the dish. Make a crust of No. III. paste. Glaze it with either of the methods mentioned, serve cold or hot with cream. Pears take longer to cook than apples. It will be well to cover the paste at first with paper. Or in some cases even to stew the pears and let them gel cold before putting on the cover. Tourte de Motagne, (Mountain Pie or Tart.) Ingredients: Bilberries or Whortleberries, 1 lb. Pearl Sugar, i lb. Apples, J lb. Line a pie dish with Rough Puff, No. III. paste. Put a layer of apples cut into rings, and place half the bilberries on the top, then put in the sugar, strewing it over; next a layer of apple, and the rest of the bilberry, cover with paste, bake, glaze as at (page 307). Vol-au-vent des Peches. (Puff Tart of Peaches.) Ingredients: Peaches, (canned) i tin. Bitter Almonds, J oz. blanched. Syrup. J pint. Whipped Cream, i gill. Pistachio Nuts, i oz. blanched. Puff Paste, No I. Gelatine, i oz. Make an oval vol-au-vent case of No. I. puff paste, cut it with fluted cutters. No. 1. for the outside. Dip in hot waterHOTEL AND RESTAURANT COOKERY, 325 and make a clean even cut of the paste which should be quite 1 inch deep. Take a similar shaped cutter 2 sizes smaller, so as to leave a fair margin, dip in hot water and cut half-way down into the paste, put it into the oven and bake. In the meantime blanch the almonds and split them in two, cutting sideways, also blanch the pistachio nuts, and mince them very fine, take half the juice from the canned peaches, if it is clear, add to the syrup and boil it till it is reduced to a glaze. When the vol-au-vent case is baked, take it out, and with sharp knife, remove the inside by the mark made by the cutter No. 2. This must be done whilst it is hot. Also if from the oven drawing the pastry to one side, or any other cause, uneven rolling in making, for instance, the top is not level, use the top crust and the inside to build up the case and make it level, brush over with glaze (as at page 306) set in the oven, then lay the peaches you intend to use, putting half an almond in each cup, or half of the peach, pour in the syrup, glaze over, whip the cream, and stir in a J oz. of gela- tine, soaked in water and dissolved over the fire. Put it into piping cornets and pipe lattice-work, over the peaches, when the cream mixture is nearly cold. Red Currant and other jellies. As required. Beat the whites of 6 eggs to a stiff foam, add by degrees ^ lb. of finely-sifted castor or crushed lump sugar, beating the mixture the whole time, Sift in the corn flour^ this must be Tartelettes a la Romaine. (Roman Tartlets, Ingredients: Whipped Cream, Whites of Eggs, Sugar, Orange Flower Water, Corn flour, i Pint. 6. Jib. 1 Teaspoonful. 1 oz.326 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. done very steadily or the pastry will be tough. The beating must cease and the corn flour be just lightly stirred in. Have a tray covered with oiled paper and small shallow rings on it lined with paper, let all be quite hot. Rapidly pour in the mixture, about 2 tablespoonfuls to each little ring, bake in a moderate oven. Whilst they are cooking indent each in the centre, using the back of a spoon or a metal stamp. When they come out of the oven, glaze with No. 4 (page 306) set, and when cold, fill each with whipped cream and decorate with squares of bright coloured jellies on each and serve for balls, tea, luncheon, or supper parties. Tarte a la Beaconsfield. (Beaconsfield Tart.) Ingredients: Half Peaches, 12. Canned Apples, J Tin. Ess. Noyeau, 2 Drops. Custard, J Pint. Champagne, J Glass. White of Eggs, 2 Whipped. Dry Red Preserved Cherries, As required. Angelica Leaves, 20. Sugar, 3 ozs. Line a pie dish with No. H. paste, lay the half peaches in the pie dish, strew the 3 ozs. of sugar over, add the wine, then lay in the half-tin of apples, make ^ pint of custard, drop in the noyeau. Cover over the fruit, shield with paper, and put into the oven to cook the paste and warm the fruits. When it is done, have ready the whites of eggs whipped, stir in 1 oz. of fine sifted sugar, spread the foam over the top of the tart, trace out Beaconsfield^s monogram with the minced cher- ries, also a crown above it. Put a wreath of angelica leavesHOTEL AND RESTAURANT COOKERY. 327 round, place in the oven for a few seconds just to set the white of egg and serve either hot or cold. Tourte de Pols Vert. (Green Pea Pie or Tart.) Ingredients:— Green Peas, 1 Pint Shelled, Noyeau Custard, 1 Pint. Cream, i Pint. Paste, No. II. (page 305) Sugar, 1 oz. Carbonate Soda, J Teaspoonful. Paste, No. II. Boil the green peas with the sugar and carbonate of soda. Leave the lid off the saucepan the whole time. Drain when cooked. Place in a pie dish lined with a thin coating of Paste No. II. A pint of good noyeau custard. Put it into the oven to set. When firm put the peas on the top. Pour the cream over the peas. Cover in the tart with paste. Bake, glace, and serve hot or cold. Tourte de Chocolat et Pommes. (Chocolate and Apple Pie or Tart.) Ingredients:— Puff Paste, No. II. Apples, J lb. Sugar, 2 oz. Chocolate, J Pint. Eggs, 2. Line a pie dish with a thin web of No. 2 Paste. Make a cup pint) of Chocolate, from Cadbury's preparation; (light blue wrapper.) Beat up a couple of eggs, stir them into the Chocolate, and pour the mixture into the pie dish. Set it in the oven to get firm, Pare and core i lb. of apples, and328 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. Stew till tender (or to save time use the canned apples,) in either case, slice them. Lay on the top of the chocolate custard, when set, pour cream over, sift on the sugar. Cover with paste, glaze, and bake. CREAMS. Banana Russe, Ingredients:— Peel the bananas, slice each one into three or four slices. Take a plain sided round Charlotte mould, decorate with fruits, cherries, &c., dipped in gelatine. Steep the slices of banana in wine and sugar for an hour ; then place them round the mould as for a Charlotte Russe, Of course the fruit must be tipped at the ends and made level. When the fruit is fixed, mix a cream, sweeten with sugar, stiffen with i oz. of gelatine soaked in Marsala, and dissolved over the fire in the wine, also use that left from steeping the fruit. Stir this into the cream, pour into the mould and put it to set on the ice. When the cream is quite firm, put a layer of sliced bananas on the top. Open a bottle of cherry jelly. Melt it by standing the bottle in hot water, or on a hot plate. When dissolved, pour into the mould, set and serve as other creams and jellies. Fine Fresh Bananas, Dried Cherries, Angelica, Marsala, Sugar, Cream, 9 to 12. 6. 4 Rings. 2 Glasses. 2 ozs. J Pint.—or more if Gelatine, Of Bottled Cherry Jelly, requisite, i oz. 1 Pint.HOTEL AND RESTAURANT COOKERY. 329 Pine Apple a la Victor. Ingredihtts:— Pine Apple, 6 Rings. Cream, 1 Pint. Cloves, Nutmegs, Coriander, Cochineal, Sugar, Water, Pistachio Nuts, As required. Sweet and Bitter Almonds, J oz. Grated Pine Apple, 1 Tin. When fresh pine apple is used, pare and cut into rings, half an inch thick. If canned lift out six rings and place them in a jar, with 6 cloves, a piece of nutmeg as large as a haricot bean, J teaspoonful of coriander seeds, cover the pine apple with water, or the juice from the tin. Add sugar, about 2 tablespoonfuls, so as to make the liquor into a syrup. Then colour with cochineal, (or crimson salts.) Put a paper cover over the jar, and place it in the oven, which must be cool, let the pine apple cook, if fresh fruit is used, or if canned, just let it get warm, on no account boil. Leave the fruit in the jar all night, so as to imbibe the colouring and flavour of the spices. When ready to make the dish, lift out the fruit, halve and quarter it. Whip a pint of cream. Lay the grated pine apple in the centre of the dish, cone form. Strain the coloured syrup, and pour round, cover the the grated fruit with the whipped cream, decorate with the coloured J rings of fruit, sweet and bitter almond, also pistachio nuts, all three blanched by pouring over boiling water, and slipping them out of the dark husks or skins.330 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOT]e:LS, ETC, Le Grand Morceau. Ingredients:— Handsome Shaped Sponge Gake, 1. Cowslip Wine, 1 Bottle. Canned Lemon Sponge, 1 Tin, Pomegranate, 1. Pistachio Nuts, i oz. Spray of Holly, or Myrtle, 1, Run long skewers down the cake and soak well with cowslip, or any other white wine; open a tin of lemon sponge. Melt and manipulate. Pick out pomegranate seeds, and lay them on a plate for use. Blanch pistachio nuts and mince them quite finely. Cover the cake with the lemon whip. Make spiral traceries round the cake of the pomegranate seeds and the pistachio nuts. Top the whip with a spray of well berried holly, if at Christmas time. Or of myrtle or syringa in the summer. Le Creme L*Espagnole. (Spanish Cream.) Ingredients:— Cream, 1 Quart. Orange Flower Water, 1 Fluid oz. Commercial Musk, 2 Drops. Double Sifted (castor) Sugar, i lb. Black and White Grapes, Oranges, Apples. This cream was prepared in Feb., 1883, and is much in request. Take the quart of cream, put it into an enamel pan, let it come to the boil. Stir into it, using a silverspoon for the purpose; the orange flower water, musk and sugar. It must stand off the fire now. Stir till the sugar dissolves,HOTEL AND RESTAURANT COOKERY. 331 Then when nearly cold commence to whip, and whip till it is nearly a butter. This cream is really over whipped to that which we meet with at English tables. When it is firm and rocky, pile on a gold, silver or glass dish. Ornament with fruits thus prepared : Grapes on the stalk in bunches of three, five, or six, not larger. Skin the fruit carefully so as not to disarrange it. Peel the oranges and divide into lobes, be careful not to break the skins. Canned apples. Have melted gelatine ready that has been soaked in wine, and dissolved over the fire. Use whilst warm. Dip the grapes in the liquid and dust over with fine castor sugar, and place on a sieve to dry at the mouth of the oven, or on the hot plate. Use castor sugar for the other fruits if you like, or vary it by dipping the apples, or oranges in centrifugal sugar— dry as for the grapes. Garnish the cream with this and serve. Pommes a la Chateau Ti*eulon. (Apples in the Treulon Wine Fashion.) Ingredients:— Apples, 1 lb. Treulon Wine, J Pint. Cochineal, Sugar, As Required. Gelatine dissolved in water, Jelly, Squares or Minced. Cream, \ Pint. Noyeau, 3 Drops. Stew the apples in red wine, using cochineal to deepen the colour, if necessary; add sugar, and gently stew the apples, taking care they are a sort that will not fall in the cooking. Core them from the bud, not the stalk end, fill ^ach hollow with a little whipped cream, brush the fruit532 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. over with gelatine. Crust over with centrifugal sugar, i, e, large flat crystals) dry on the hot plate, reduce the wine to a glaze, pour round the fruit, dress the tops of the apples with bright jelly, either in squares or minced. They should be served on a glass dish. Creme a la L'Imperatrice Eugenie. (The Empress Eugenie Creaip.) Ingredients:— Port wine, gelatine, double cream, cochineal, saffron, spirit, sugar, candied violets. Soak in J pint of port wine, 1 oz. of gelatine. Dissolve the gelatine over the fire, and have whipped one pint of double cream. Stir into the cream the dissolved gelatine, also 1 oz. of candied violets. Stir till nearly cold, and during the stirring, colour it, using cochineal and spirit of saffron till the cream is a nice bright violet colour. Pour into a mould having on the top a lion. If possible decorate with heather and violets, ericas will do as well as the wild heather if it is not obtainable. The lion and heather are symbols of the Scotch Nationality of the Empress. The violets are the Imperialist's symbolic flowers. One garnishing of this dish had the plateau, on which the cream rested, decorated with violets on the outer edge, one fourth of the plateau facing the head of the table was covered with silver sand to represent the sea-shore, on which were placed tiny groups of French Imperial soldiers, as a guard of honour to the figure of a lady with fair hair dressed in purple velvet. A division was made across the sand, and on the other side, next the stalk of the cream stand, was a group of British sailors, and figures in English dress, welcoming the visitor, foremost amongst them being a little Highland figure, holding a Scotch Standard \vith the words Ever Welcome/'HOTEL AND RESTAURANT COOKERY. 333 Duke of Connaught Trifle. Ingredients: Queen Cakes, 0. Greengage Jam, As required. Champagne or Sherry, As required. Double Cream, 1 Pir\f X i ini. ociaiine. 1 oz. Sugar, white sifted. As required. Sponge Cake, at Id. 1. Lemon Sponge, 1 Tin. White of Egg, 1. Colouring. Calf's Foot Jelly, 1 Pint. Slice stale Queen cakes in thin rings, make sandwiches of them by spreading greengage jam on one slice and covering with another. Cover the bottom of a glass dish with them, soak ^ 07. of gelatine in a wineglass of champagne or sherry, (see Bacchus, page 29.) moisten the Queen cakes with the same kind of wine. Rub 3 tablespoonfuls of greengage jam through a tammy sieve, colour the puree with spinach juice, or vegetable green to make it a bright colour. Whip a pint of double cream, stir in the greengage puree, dissolve the gelatine over the fire and stir into the cream, continue the stirring, till the cream seems to be near setting, then pour over the Queen cakes. Roughly stich together a card-board step pyramid, cover it with slices of sponge cake and Queen cake, brushing the edges of the cake with^white of egg, so as to act as a cement and keep the pieces firmly in place. When it is quite firm, withdraw the cardboard. Dust this over with sugar. If you like to make a good lemon sponge, open a tin, melt and whip, and fill the inside of the pyramid, or set in a pyramid mould and coat with the sponge cake,334 THE NEW GtJIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. dusting the case with the sugar. On the greengage cream set four sphinxes, two in clear and two in marbled jelly. Sphinx moulds can be had from any mould makers, from 4 inches long to any size within reason, for jellies, puddings, &c. Blue Ribbon Trifle. (Temperance Trifle.) Ingredients: Rice Cakes, 2 at Id. each. Tall Sponge Cake, 1 Stale. Milk, IJ Pints. Chocolate or Cocoa Jelly, U Pints. Gelatine, f oz. Glacialine, As required. Ground Pop Corn, J oz. Red and Green Comfit Peas, 2 ozs. Jam, As required. Custard, 1 Pint. Corn flour, 2 Tablespoonfuls. Sugar, As required. Raspberry Syrup, 1 Wineglassful. Place a large sponge cake in the centre of a glass dish, crumble the rice cakes and surround the cake with them, throw the raspberry syrup over the rice cake crumbs, pierce the sponge cake with a skewer in several places from top to bottom, make a pint of chocolate or cocoa, soak the gelatine in milk and stir into the chocolate whilst hot to dissolve, also a small quantity of-glacialine to prevent the milk from turn- ing sour, soak the cake with this, pouring it on slowly, then leave it an hour or so to soak in. Prepare a corn flour blanc- mange, spread jam over the rice cake crumbs, cover with the corn flour bianc-mange, pour the custard—nicely flavoured— over this, decorate the cake with the red and green peas inHOTEL AND RESTAURANt COOKERY. 335 the mouldings or flutings of the sponge cake, dust with pop corn, (see page ) stand a *'Father Christmas/* or a New Year's Angel on the top and serve. Royal Balmoral Trifle. Ingredmits: Blue Berries, 1 Pint. ✓ T) '71 ' TTT7 j7 7 ' 1 (Bilberries or Whorfleoernes.) Castor or Sifted Lump Sugar, As required. Candied Fruits, &c. Double Cream, 1 Pint. Stale Sponge Cake, 1 at 2d. Gelatine, 1 oz. Pound Cake, ilb. Noyeau, \ Glass. Cognac, f Pint. Red. Yellow, and Pink Jellies, As required. Take the blue berries, pick them carefully over to see that they are free from leaves, stalks, &c. Put them into a deep trifle dish, strew sifted castor sugar over and throw half the cognac on top, let them remain an hour or two. Cut a crown out of a stale sponge cake, and various pretty devices, bake them in the oven to a golden brown, and of the texture of rusks. Crumble the pound cake and lay on the top of the fruit, whip the cream, sweeten, and pour over that. The gelatine should be dissolved and mixed with the cream, also a petit verre of cognac. When the cream has set, strew with centrifugal sugar, lay on the crown in the centre, moisten it after it is placed, with noyeau, also the other ornaments. This must be done carefully so as not to moisten the cream. Turn out four lions couchant, guarding the crown, and made of different coloured jellies, their faces to the outer edge of the dish, decorate the plateau with heather, ericas, ferns, and336 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. small figures of wild deer and roe in groups, also Highlanders with sporting dogs, &c., amongst the flower groupings. Duchess of Albany Trifle. Ingredients: Madeira Cake, Apricot Preserve, i lb. Lemon Sponge, iTin. Fruits de L'Eau de Vie, As required. Comfiteurs, 99 99 Crystallized Barberries, fi »» Angelica, 99 99 Sugar Piping Mixture, 99 99 Figure of Cupid, 1. Spun Sugar Work. Whipped Cream, 1 Pint. Curacoa, i Glass. Cowslip or Marsala Wine, 1 Pint. Lay a Madeira cake on a trifle dish, pour over cowslip or sherry wine and leave it two or three hours to soak. Open a tin of lemon sponge and whip to a fine rock, cover the cake with the apricot jam and then with the sponge, stand the Cupid as the very top ornament of the sponge, with Fruits de VEau de vie. Spin a sugar cage that will cover the cake and boy, pipe it with coloured icing mixtures, to represent different coloured jewels. Spin little bridges, from the cage to the plateau and put wax Cupids on them, they are lighter than sugar figures, whip the cream, flavour it with curacoa, and pour round the base of the cake, decorate with barberry sprays, comfiteurs, angelica leaves, &c., &c. Decorate the plateau with feather moss, bright berries and white flowers, in fact there is plenty of scope for the artistic abilities of the Chef and his sugar workers to be displayed on this very popular trifle.HOTEL AND kESTAURANT COOKERY. 337 Trifle a Aix Les Bains. (The Countess Trifle.) Ingredients : Macaroons, Sugar, Grated Pine Apple, Gelatine, Cherry Jelly, Sugar Figures, Icing Mixture, Conserved Violets, Cognac, 1 lb. \\ lbs. J Tin. 1 oz. 1 Pint. As required. 1 Wineglassful. Take the biscuits and form a ring on a mould as if making a Chantilly basket. Boil sugar to the crack" and dip each biscuit edge in this and use it as a cement for the biscuits. Into a temple mould pour a cherry jelly and leave it to set on the ice, whip a cream, stir in the gelatine, which should be soaked in the cognac and melted over a gentle fire, also about half a tin of grated pine apples, (about 6Jd. per tin in London, and at the stores,) pour this into the trifle dish, when firm stand the macaroon wall on it, turn out the jelly and place on the centre, boil the sugar to the crack, and add a little acid to prevent the sugar graining. Spin a trellis work over the biscuits; on the temple, pipe in window tracery, mouldings, &c., put a group of figures as if coming out, and if for a wedding breakfast or ball, a bride and bride- groom in sugar-work. Spin a cage from the macaroons to the temple, strew the conserved violets over the cream, dust it with castor sugar and serve. V338 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. The Lady Brooke Trifle. Ingredieiits:—- Grated Pine Apple, Ratafia Biscuits, Double Cream, Noyeau, White Wine, Pistachio Nuts, Bonbons de Fruits, Sugar, 1 Tin. ilb. li Pints. 1 Glass. 2 Glasses. 1 oz. 1 Box at Is. As required. Empty the tin of grated pine apple into a circular trifle dish, strew sugar over. Lay ratafia biscuits on the top and moisten them by pouring wine over. Whip the cream flavoured with noyeau, and sweetened. As the froth rises lift it oflf, and put it on a sieve to drain. Continue to whip until there is a sufiicient quantity, then lay it over the biscuits. Decorate with the bonbons round the outer edge, and blanched and chopped pistachio nuts. Strew over the whip. If any of the box fruits are too large, halve or quarter them. Garnish the plateau with exotic flowers, and maiden- hair ferns. The Erl King's Cup. Ingredients:— Cream Sweetened, and Flavoured Vanilla, 1 Quart, Fresh Raspberries, 1 Pint. Ices, Pink, White, Yellow, 1 for each cup. Put a silver ring, or piece of money in the bottom of each cup, cover with cream about ^ of the cup, or custard glass full, then a dessert spoonful of ripe rasps. Fill with an ice just before serving. On the handle of the cup are cards with the words neatly written or printed on,HOTEL AND RESTAURANT COOKERY. 33$ **The Erl King's Cup, Sweet maid try your luck." These should never be handed to absent minded people. They might swallow the Erl King's gift, and then he would be angry, and bring dire misfortune on the household. A somewhat similar dish is;— Barbarossa's Treasure Trove, Ingredients:— Sponge Cake Crumbs, iib. White Wine, 2 Glasses. Conserved Peaches, 12 Halves. Pearl Sugar, As required. Cognac. 1 Glass. Blanc Mange, 1 Pint. Candied Spirits and Ratafia Biscuits, As required. Centrifugal Sugar, ilb. Coins and Rings, At will. Lay the cake crumbs on the bottom of the trifle dish, moisten them with white wine. Take canned peaches, put them in a jar, strew pearl sugar over and moisten it with water, or liquor from the tin if clear. Put it into a cool oven, where it will only warm through, and leave it for an hour. Then lay it on the cake so as to completely cover it. Make a corn flour hlanc-mange, sweeten and flavour with cognac. Pour half this over the peaches, lay the gifts, (treasure troves) on the corn flour, cover with more corn- flour, decorate with ratafia biscuits, candied fruits of all kinds, and sprinkle between centrifugal sugar.34<^ THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. Creme des Gnomes. (The Gnome Cream.) Ingredients:— Cream, 1 Lemon Syrup, 1 Gelatine, 1^ 1 Wineglass. IJ ozs. 1| Glasses. 1 Pint. Maraschino, 1; Red and white currants, or cherries, or almonds, and dried cherries, As required. Ring, thimble, two silver coins. Soak the gelatine in the maraschino. Take a handsome mould, line it with red and white currants, or blanched almonds and cherries. The fruits are dipped in dissolved gelatine, lifted with a tracing or larding needle out of the liquid, and at once laid in position on the mould. When they are set and firmly in place, whip the cream, stir in the lemon syrup, and the gelatine that is left, there should be about 1 oz. Put a ring, a thimble, a threepenny piece, and a shilling. These represent marriage, old maid or bache- lorism, small or large fortune, and create great fun at wed- ding, .birthday, and All Hallow Eve," parties, &:c., &c. Bijou Casket. Ingredients:— Sponge Finger Biscuits, Ratafias, Sugar, Cream, Gelatine, ilb. 2 ozs, ilb. Pints. IJ ozs.HOTEL AND RESTAURANT COOKERY. 34 T Fruits:— Pine Apple, Cherries, As required. Red and Wiiite Currants, „ Bananas Canned, „ Pears and Apples, ,, Bay Rum, 1 Wineglass. First make a casket of sponge biscuits, joining them with sugar boiled to the "crack" (or gelatine, very strong solu- tion.) Leave it to set. Next take all kinds of fruits, and with a vegetable cutter, cut into small pieces. This is a good way of using up dessert fruits. They should all be free from syrup. The interstices left can be chopped up, and used in trifles, &c. Whip the cream, stir in the gelatine previously soaked and dissolved. Continue whip- ping, pour in the bay rum. Next put in the fruits, say about J to I pint, raspberries and wet fruits would spoil the cream. When nearly stiff, pour into the casket, gently decorate the top with angelica and dried fruits. La Belle Americaine Gelee, (The American Beauty's Jelly.) Ingredients:— Calfs Foot Jelly, 1 Quart. Syrup of Violets, Saffron, As required. Gold Leaf, 1. Candied Peaches, or Apricots, 2. Caramel, 1 Dessertspoonful. Candied Orange flowers, \ oz. Corn flour Blanc Mange, 1 Teacupful. Cut stars from the candied apricots, sliced quite thin. Choose a lion mould, decorate round with stars of apricot dipped in melted jelly, then allow it to set before any- thing else is attempted. Next fill the lion with corn flour342 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. blanc mange, sweetened and coloured with caramel. Colour 3 parts of the jelly with syrup of violets, just to a pale wood violet colour; when the stars and the lion have set, pour in the violet jelly when cool (not cold,) and let it set, when nearly stiff insert several China cupids; head downwards in the mould. Dip fruits in gelatine, roll it in gold leaf, and lay on the top of blue jelly; then carefully run the rest of the jelly slightly coloured with saffron over, when set, remove from the mould and serve. Apples a la Cordon Bleu, (Cordon Bleu Apples.) Ingredients:— Rosy Cheeked Apples, 6. Yellow and Green Apples, 6. Jellies and Blanc Mange, Cochineal, As required. Cream, J Pint. Gelatine, 1 oz. Cognac, 1 Glass. Pistachio Nuts, J oz. Sugar, As required. With a silver or bone scoop, take out the pulp of the apples, after cutting them each in half. Be careful not to break the outer skin. Fill the skins with jellies of different colours, and blanc-manges, standing them in beds of rice, so that they may keep steady, and in an upright position till set. When ready to dish sweeten the cream and pulp. Soak the gelatine in the brandy. Whip the cream when it is stiff, dissolve the gelatine, and stir in, with the apple pulp, to the cream. Colour red, and when becoming stiff, pile up in the centre of a trifle dish. Arrange the half apples tier upon tier alternate red, yellow and green skins, forming the lower row round the whip, then reverse the fruit in the next row, showing the various coloured jelliesHOTEL AND RESTAURANT COOKERY. 343 and blanc manges ; alternating with the outside of the fruit in the next tier, and so on. Chop some blanched pistachio nuts, and strew on the top. Serve with rusks steeped in wine. La Quete Gelee. (The Search Jelly.) Ingredients: Calfs foot, Sherry, Orange, or Light Jelly, 1 Quart. Handsome Sprays of Barberry or Myrtle, 2. China Figures 4 a Penny, 12. Cream, 1 Quart. Gelatine, 1 oz. Curacoa 1 Wineglass. This jelly causes great fun at parties. We first suspend the barberry sprays from a stick set crosswise over the mould and the bunches tied on with cotton. Half fill the mould with jelly; just as it is getting firm, put in one or two of the babies, then fill up to about f; put some little Kate Greena- way figures next, they must be tiny and all their heads placed downwards, so that they may stand upright when the jelly turns out, fill up the mould, and when the jelly will bear it, put in the rest. Leave it all night to set. Next day, whip the cream, flavour with curacoa, stiffen with dissolved gela- tine, and when of a good consistency, pour over the jelly, and serve.344 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. A Silver Wedding Trifle. Ingredients: Stale Genoa Cake, J lb. Apricot Jam, As required. Noyeau, 2 Wineglasses. Treble Distilled Orange Flower Water, 1 Tablespoonful. Gelatine, J oz. Dissolved in Milk. Calfs Foot Jelly, 1 Pint. Lemon Sponge, J Tin. Orange Flower Chips, 1 oz. Cream, 1 Pint. Silver Leaf, 1. Sugar Figures of Hymen with Flaiiibeau. Slice the Genoa cake in thin slices, spread jam on one half and cover over with another slice of cake, lay them in the bottom of a glass dish, and throw over it 2 glasses of noyeau, (see page 57) and let it soak into the cake. Whip the cream till it is thick, stir in the orange flower water (page 62) and the dissolved gelatine, spread this evenly over the cake and let it set quite firm so that it will bear the jelly. Melt a calfs foot jelly, or make a pint, (see page 380; pour a little on a small dish,slip the silver leaf on to it, pour some more jelly on the top and break up the leaf, return all to the jelly, pour into a flat topped mould and set on the ice to cool. When firm turn out and place on the cream. Put the figure of Hymen on the top, scatter the candied orange chips round the base of the jelly and serve.HOTEL AND RESTAURANT COOKERY. 345 The Alpine Club Trifle. Ingrcdienis : Sponge Cakes, Madeira Wine, GoodalTs White Blanc-mange 2 Moulds. U Pints. Powder, Milk, Whites of Eggs, Sifted Sugar, Custard, Sweet Biscuit Crumbs, Ground Pop Corns, Spinach Juice, IJ Packets, li Pints. 4. As required. 1 Pint. i lb. 2 ozs. 1 Tablespoonful. Caramel, J ,, Take two large, tall sponge cakes, cut one into four length- wise, take unequal portions off the bottom so that they may not all be of one height, cut off, and then hollow out the cake at the inside sharp edge of each quarter, so that it may fit close to the other (and centre) cake. Soak the centre cake well with wine, first standing it in the glass dish, crumble the cuttings down, place the four quarters round the tall centre piece, strew the crumbs equally over the bottom of the dish. The wine that runs from the chief cake will soak the crumbs and side pieces. Pour the custard over the crumbs. The custard should be a little thicker than for cup custard. Prepare 1| packets of Goodall's Lemon Blanc-mange Powder with IJ pints of milk, sweeten with sugar. This ought not to be so thick as for hlanc-mange, as it is intended to pour over the sponge cakes, it should drape from the spoon, pour whilst hot over the cakes, which will then look like snow mountains. Pop some Indian corn or maize. If you have no basket346 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. put the corns into an old iron pot or pan, with a lid cover them down, and make one of the kitchen helps shake the pot to and fro over the gas ring or stove, till there is a " pop" or two heard, then remove the white balls as they are done, and when cold grind them in a spice or coffee mill. Whip the whites of eggs to a stiff foam, sift in sugar, colour some green, some brown, but leave the bulk of the foam white, poach these latter in milk, the milk you use for the blanc-mange powder will do, as it will be none the worse for the other, after the white portions of the egg are cooked. Poach the green and brown in sweetened water and shape them with a tablespoon and knife. Group them round the dish, strew sweet biscuit crumbs, sifted, between and over the top of the mountain and round the four side tips, sprinkle the soft, white, ground pop corns. Poisson de Mer Trifle. (Fish of the Sea Trifle.) Ingredients: Lay first pine apple, and then the crumbs in the bottom of the trifle dish, melt and colour half of the jelly a deep green, and pour very steadily over the crumbs. Run the other pint on to a soup plate or circular dish, the size of the trifle dish, and let it set firm. Whip the lemon sponge to a fine rock, Sponge Cake Crumbs, Candied Fruits, Grated Pine Apple, Sugar and Chocolate Fish, Cowslip or Sherry Wine, Whipped Cream or Lemon *lb. As required. iTin. 2 Doz. various sizes. iPint. Sponge Liquid Green Colour, Calfs Foot Jelly. 1 Pint. As required. 1 Quart bottle.HOTEL AND RESTAURANT COOKERY. 347 and place it piled up in the centre of the trifle dish. Take the candied fruits as dried cherries, and group them round the base to represent sea zoophites, yellow apricots, &c., like living flora of the sea, round and in the spaces at the hottom of the rocks. Fix the fish in the green jelly before it is quite set, but it must be cool and not liquid enough to melt them. Little sprays of maiden hair, here and there, will not hurt the jelly or its consumers, and represents seaweed. Cut the jelly- on the soup plate into four quarters, as you would divide a ring of lemon, cut a circle out, to permit it to fit round the rocks of lemon sponge. The piece so cut out, can be utilized for tart or cream decoration. Lay the quarter circles care- fully on the trifle dish, put a little sugar or wooden toy-boat here and there on the water (or jelly) and serve. It will be found that the green jelly will give a sea hue to the clear calf's foot jelly above. Robin's Nest Trifle. (Temperance Trifle.) Ingredients: Cerealine (or Cooked Hominy), 4 Tablespoonfuls. Milk, IJ Pints. Sponge Cake Crumbs, J lb. Lemon Syrup, 1 Wineglassful. Cocoa Jelly, J Pint. Sugar, As required. Ground Pop Corns, 1 oz. Robins, 1, 2, or 3. Cream, 1 Tablespoonful, Liqueur Eggs White Red Spots, 20. Greengage Jam, J lb. Put the cerealine into a basin, boil and sweeten the milk and pour it over it. Return to the saucepan and cook for about 5 minutes, take a large round salt-cellar, fill it with the348 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. cerealine, dip a small egg in water and indent the hominy till it forms a hollow like a bird's nest. Make four or six of these, trimming them neatly off round the top edge level with the salt cellar. Lay them on a dish to cool. Pour over the sponge cake crumbs, the lemon syrup, and arrange them in the bottom of the trifle dish. Make a cup of cocoa, soak J oz of gelatine in thin cream or new milk, dissolve it in the cocoa, sweeten it of course to taste, pour this over the crumbs and stand in a cool place to set. Pop the corns (page 345) or buy pop corns and grind. When the cocoa jelly is set, sprinkle the ground corn over to imitate snow. Place the nests on the jelly, fill them with greengage jam, without any stones, lay in the centre nest 5 little white eggs with red spots, in the others irreg-^ilar num- bers, as 2, 3, 4, or 1, not more than five in any nest. Perch a couple or three redbreasts on the brim of the glass dish. The claws are made of lead and easily clamped on. A very small one on the centre nest with its head slightly turned on one side, would indicate Robin's surprise at the late snows that often fall in the spring, after hot June-like weather, especially in England's most charming unchangable climate. American Pudding Ingredients Fresh Bananas, 6. Sweet White Wine, 1 Glass. (Or lemon syrup, for temperance tables.) Pearl Sugar, 2 oz. Cracknel Biscuits, \ lb. Eggs, 2. New Milk, 1 Pint. Essence of Lemon, 3 Drops. Castor Sugar, As required. Slice the bananas, lay them in a dish. Strew half the sugarHOTEL AND RESTAURANT COOKERY. ^40 and the wine over them, and let them lie for a couple of hours. Roll out the biscuits till they are in powder. Beat up the eggs, sweeten the milk and add to them also the lemon essence. Lay 3 of the sliced bananas in the bottom of the pie dish, strew half the cracknel dust over, then pour on the wine and sugar left from the steeping. Now another layer of thin slices, finishing with the biscuit crumbs; which, by the way, ought to be sifted through a wire sieve, to ensure freedom from lumps, before placing over the ban- anas. Now pour over the custard. Bake, dust thickly with castor sugar and serve. Peel and slice the vegetable marrows, boil them in water, add about a small saltspoonful of salt. Pulp through a wire sieve when tender and whilst still hot. Stir in the butter, sugar, white wine, and 2 eggs beaten up a little. Beat the whole mixture well for 3 or 4 minutes, to make it light. Line a pie dish with rough puff paste. Cover the pie with the same kind, after pouring in the vegetable marrow, (or pumpkin) mixture. Bake, glaze, (as at page 306) and serve hot or cold. Golden American pumpkin can be bought in tins, and is very good, but marrows are cheaper, and answer the purpose quite as well. Sweet Pumpkin Pie. Ingredients:— Vegetable Marrow, Butter, Pearl Sugar, Almond Essence, White Wine, Pastry No. IL Eggs, 2 lbs. 1 oz. 2 Tablespoon fuls. 3 Drops. 1 Glass. (See page 305 ) 3.350 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. Le Chapeau de Chelsea. (The Chelsea Hat.) Pufif Paste, i lb. No I. Maraschino, or Red Currant Jelly, As re(iuired. Whipped Cream, J Pint. Icing Sugar Mixture. Roll out the paste, cut it into rings about 2J inches diameter, wet the edges and pinch it up into the form of a three cornered hat, put dummies in and bake; brush over with egg and glaze, pipe the rims inside and out, lay squares of jelly in the bottom of the tart, fill up with whip- ped cream. Spin a web or cross bars of piping by way of decoration. Then serve. BOILED FRUIT AND MEAT PUDDINGS. Queen-Empress Victoria Pudding. Ingredients:— Suet, (or beef marrow,) J lb. Self-raising Flour, J lb. Eggs, 2. Milk, i Pint. Red Cherries, J lb. Sugar, i lb. Noyeau, i Glass. Water, As required. Mince the suet very fine, or rub the marrow into the flour direct, mix, whilst dry, very thoroughly and lightly. Make into a paste with water, using a knife for mixing. When it leaves the sides of the bowl dry, dust the board with flour, and turn it out. Grease a plain basin, using paper in so doing, and taking care there is no water in the butter orHOTEL AND RESTAURANT COOKERY. 35! Sugar, 2 ozs. dripping used for the purpose, or the pudding will not turn out of the shape easily. Line the basin with a thin crust, lay cherries in the bottom, enough to fill one fourth of the basin, then strew some pearl sugar in, and proceed to put in the rest of the fruit. This should half fill the basin, and if it a little more than half fills it; it does not matter. Put a layer of crust, (not too thin) over the cherries, make a custard of the 2 eggs, and quarter of a pint of milk, thicken it in a jug standing in a saucepan of boiling water, sweeten, and keep stirring the whole time. When it is thick, lift it off the fire, stir in the half glass of noyeau (or 3 drops of noyeau or almond essence.) Pour it gently into the basin, cover in with paste. Steam li hours and serve. The Balmoral Pudding. Ingredients:— Beef Marrow, (or suet) J lb. Self-raising Flour, ^ lb. Bilberries, J lb. Eggs, 2. Milk, i Pint. Sugar, 4 oz. Lemon Essence, 3 Drops. Prepare exactly as in the preceeding receipt, using the above ingredients. L'Empress de L*Inde Pudding. (Empress of India Pudding.) Ingredients:— Pine Apple Grated, J Tin. Eggs, 2. Milk, iPint. Suet, i lb. Self-raising Flourj J lb. Curacoa, ^ Glass,35^ THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. Sugar, 3 ozs. Prepare the crust and line the dish as in the Victoria Pudding, Put the grated pine apple, and the curacoa in the bottom, and finish as directed in the Victoria, (page 350) Steam \\ hours and serve. The Randolph Churchill Pudding Ingredients:— Beef Marrow, \ lb. Self-raising Flour, i lb. Eggs, 2. Milk, J Pint. Grated Pine apple, J Tin. Bread Crumbs, 2 ozs. Pearl Sugar, 8 ozs. Mix the paste as in the last receipt, rubbing the marrow lightly into the flour. Line the basin. Soak the crumbs in the hot and sweetened milk. Stir in the pineapple, and then the eggs, pour into the basin, cover with paste. Steam \\ hours, and serve. Another egg, and a glass of curacoa, make the pudding still richer. Cost of pine apple in tin about 6Jd. for whole tin. Pouding de Citron. (Lemon Pudding.) Ingredients:— Suet, ilb. Self-raising Flour, ilb. Eggs, 2. Milk, 1 Pint. Sifted Bread Crumbs, 3 ozs. Chemists' Loose Essence of Lemon, J Teaspoonful. Or Spirit Essence, 3 Drops.HOTEL AND RESTAURANT COOKERY. 353 Boil the milk, dissolve the sugar in it, and whilst it is hot throw it over finely sifted white bread crumbs. Let them soak whilst you shred and mince the suet and mix it with the flour. Make it into a dough, handling as little as possible. Divide it into three, use two thirds to line the basin, which should be well greased. Beat up the eggs and the flavouring, and beat them into the milk and crumbs. Pour this into the basin mould, cover with crust. Steam li hours and serve. Decorations : Dried cherries, angelica, minced pistachio nuts, blanched almonds. Well grease or oil a mould, decorate it with the candied fruits, according to taste and fancy. Sift stale white bread crumbs (new is of no use,) into a basin, sweeten and boil the milk, and pour it hot on to the crumbs, mince the suet very finely; also the primrose petals, and mix both with the crumbs, add the eggs one at a time, beating up thoroughly, so that the pudding may be light. Pour into the mould, cover down and steam for 1^ hours. Serve with champagne sauce. A glass of cowslip wine poured gently over the pudding before serving, is a most exquisite addition. Sift white sugar on the top and serve. The Beaconsfield Pudding. Ingredients:— Lamb, (or fine Mutton) Suet, Fine Sifted Bread Crumbs, Primrose Petals, Pearl Sugar, Eggs, Milk, ilb. ilb. 1 Pint. 2 ozs. 3. i Pint. w354 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. The Red Cross Knight Pudding. (For St. John's Day.) Ingredients:— Suet or Marrow, Selfraising Flour, Red Currant Jam, Apples and Cherries, Devonshire Clotted Cream, i lb. 1 lb. To fill mould. 6 ozs. or Whipped Cream, Sugar, As Sauce. As required. Mix the paste lightly with water. Roll out the paste. Line the basin with red currant jam, and then with paste. In this case the basin will not require to be greased or oiled. Fill the basin with apples and cherries in equal quantities, the former peeled and sliced, and the latter deftly stoned. Strew sugar between the layers. Cover in and steam for 2 hours. Serve and eat with whipped or clotted cream and bless **The Knights of St. John and Malta.^' Place the whole meal in a basin. Mince the suet very fine, and mix thoroughly with it whilst dry. Cut the bananas into thin rings, a^^iout the thickness of a florin, and mix. in The Queen of Health Pudding. (Dedicated to Miss Yates, 1882.) Ingredients:— Whole Meal, New Milk, Mutton Suet, Bananas, Eggs, Sugar, Red Currant Wine, Jib. 6 Fresh, or 4 Sun-dried 3. 2 ozs. 2 Wineglasses. 4- Pint.HOTEL AND RESTAURANT COOKERY. 355 also. Boil the milk and dissolve the sugar in it. Pour it as it rises in the pan over the contents of the bowl. Cover down with a plate and leave it for an hour or so. When you are ready to use it, oil or grease the mould. Beat in the eggs, one by one, till the mixture is light and well mixed. Then put it into the mould. If however it requires more milk add it; for some whole meals absorb more than others. The difference of moisture of climate, and damp or dry store houses affects it. When cooked, dish. Pour currant wine on to the top of the pudding so that it may soak through. Serve with a glass of the same wine poured round as sauce. If for temperance families use red currant syrup or jelly, 2 parts, water. Let the hot water be poured on the jelly and the sauce so made poured round. St. Stephen's Club Dumplings. Or " Westminster Puddings.") Ingredients: Bananas, 2. Apples, 2. Currants, 1 TablespoonfuL Sultana Raisins, 1 „ Fresh Fruits in Season, 1 ,, of each^ Sugar, As required. Grated Lemon Rind, L Bread Crumbs, 1 TablespoonfuL Egg, 1. Milk, 2 Tablespoonfuls, Boiled Rice,. 1 „ Suet Crust, &c., for 1 dozen Dumplings. t- Roll out the crust made as at (page 350) Cut it into rings 4 inches across. In the centre of one lay the spoon- ful of currants washed and picked, and a little sugar, on356 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. the next lay the sultanas, picked and rubbed in a clean cloth. Peel and slice the bananas, or use sun-dried, and lay them in another circle. Sweeten the boiled rice and make it the centre of another dumpling. Moisten the bread crumbs with egg, mix with lemon rind, sweeten. Put fresh fruit in the other until you have 1 dozen all with different contents, like the parliamentary notions of some dozen celebrated M. Fs. Fasten up the balls, fasten up in a clean cloth, tying each dumpling in its own floured portion, pop into boiling water, cook for f of an hour. Dish up and cover them with corn flour, or arrowroot sauce, sweetened, and flavoured with cognac, or white wine. A cruel joke was played on a hot headed member. His dumpling contained cherries seasoned with cayenne. He has not dined at the Irish M. P's since. Pouding de Pigeon a L'Americaine. Ingredients:— Self-raising Flour, i lb. Suet, 6 ozs. Nest Pigeons, 3. (or very young birds) Spices, Shalot, Thyme, Parsley, As required. (1 Flap or) Button Mushrooms, 3. Ham, 3 Slices. Hard Boiled Egg, 1. * Large Vine Leaves, 3. Bay Leaf, L Pick and dress the pigeons. Mince a shalot, about 2 tablespoonfuls of parsley, and half the quantity of thyme. Peel and mince the mushroom, (or use canned button mushrooms.) Bruise the yolk of a hard boiled egg through a strainer, and mix with the herbs and mushroom, dustHOTEL AND RESTAURANT COOKERY. 357 pepper, salt, and a grate of nutmeg over. Divide the pigeons in half, put some of the stuffing in each half, and wrap in a vine leaf each piece as it is finished. Mix the paste of minced suet and flour, roll it out. Grease the basin, line it with paste. Lay in the pigeons, half cover with water^ put on the top paste, and steam for 2 hours. On dishing make a small circular hole in the pudding top after it is turned out of the basin, pour in some hot nicely flavoured stock through a small tunstaL Wheat-Ear Pudding. Ingredients :— Flour, i lb. Suet, 6 ozs. Egg, 1. Maitre de Hotel Butter, 2 ozs. Wheat Ears, 6 or 8. (Sparrows, Starlings, Larks or Quails.) Beefsteak, \ lb. Ham and Frufiie Forcemeat, \ lb. Cocoa Nut, (grated) ^. Juice of Lemon, i. Mince the suet very finely, mix with the dry flour thoroughly. Drop in an egg, add a little water, and mix into a light paste. Oil or grease a mould, line with a thin crust, cut the beefsteak into thin strips, and beat it with a wooden mallet. Cut the birds in half after they are dressed. Put some forcemeat in each half. Roll the strips of steak up with some of the grated cocoanut inside. Fill up the basin, put butter on top. Cover with stock, and close in with paste, and steam 2^ hours. Squeeze the juice of half a lemon on the dish before turning the pudding out, serve quickly and hot,358 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. Sparrow Pudding. Ingredients:— Suet Crust, Sparrows, Sheep's Kidneys^ Beefsteak, Oysters, Salt, As above. 6. 2. i lb. 1 doz. As required. Baked Flour, Spices, Parsley, 1 Shalot. Cut the beefsteak into 6 narrow strips. Beat it out thin, dust it with pepper and salt. Cover with flour baked a fawn colour. Skin the sparrows and draw them. Divide the kidneys into 6 pieces. Put a kidney and an oyster into each sparrow, also l-6th of the shalot. Wrap a strip of beef round each bird. Line the greased basin with the crust, lay in the birds. Mince the parsley and strew in. Cover with stock or water, adding salt and spices to taste. Put on a lid of paste. Steam for 2J hours. Serve hot. Prepare the crust as directed, grease and line a basin, cut up the young rabbits, wrap each joint in a slice of lean bacon. Put them into the basin, and when the latter is half full lay in the bay leaf and lemon, add the seasonings, fill up, cover with paste, steam 2 hours. Serve hot. Rabbit Pudding. Ingredients : Suet Crust, Young Rabbits, Bacon, Seasonings, Lemon Peel, Bay Leaf, Stock, As at page 257. 2. 1 Strip for each joint. As required. 1 Inch. 1. i or i Pint, as required.359 HOTEL AND RESTAURANT COOKERY. CHAPTER X. FRITTERS, JELLIES, ICES. Uses: For meat, fowl and fish, and savoury vegetable fritters. Mode of Mixing:— Put the flour in a basin. It must be dry and free from knots. Make a hole in the centre, drop in the yolk of a fresh egg; the white being first drained ofi" into a small clean basin. Next add the oil. Take the jug containing the tepid water in the left hand and begin to work the egg, oil and flour into a paste or batter, adding water from time to time as it is required. The batter should not be too thin, but drape from the spoon. Whip the white of the egg to a firm, rocky, white foam, and stir it into the batter. It is *Lhen ready for use, although many cooks prefer to leave it to stand for a fev/ hours previous to using. The Method of Using :^ Dip the meat into the batter. Take out on the point of a knife, and drop into boiling fat. Let it remain till it is a golden brown, then drain, dust with salt, and serve. Batter for Fritters. (No i.) Ingredients:— Flour, Yolk of Egg, White of Egg, Olive Oil, Lukewarm Water, 2 oz. 1. 1 Whipped to foam. 1 Dessertspoonful. As required.360 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC Fritter Batter. No. 2. Uses as No. 1. Ingredienis: Flour, 2 ozs. Egg, 1. Butter, 1 oz. I^ukewarm Water, As required. First oil the butter, then proceed as for No. 1. using melted butter instead of olive oil. Fritter Batter. No. 3. Uses as Nos. 1. and 2. but mostly for fish frying. Ingredienis: Flour, J lb. Freeman's Egg Powder, 1 Teaspoonful. „ Baking „ i Dessertspoonful. (or, I packet.) Clarified Melted Dripping, (or Oil,) l-8th Pint. Cold or Tepid Water, As required. Mix the powders with the flour whilst dry, then add the dripping, mix with tepid water in winter especially to a moderate batter. Watery fish such as plaice and skate will require to be dipped in flour first to make the batter adhere, and it is nicer if the batter is seasoned with salt. Many coarse, careless cooks, fry fruit in these batters, but it is hardly admissable for high class tables. Where there are young children and a family to prepare for, whose cir- cumstances are not of the best, No. 3. without the fat makes a good fruit batter. The general kitchen fruit batter is,—HOTEL AND RESTAURANT COOKERY. 361 Fritter Batter. No. 4. Ingredients : Flour, White of Egg, Essence, Sugar, Tepid Milk and Water, 2 ozs. 1 Whipped to foam. 2 Drops. i Teaspoonful. As required. The flour is made into batter with tepid milk and water i 1 equal proportions, sugar is added and the essence most suit- able to the fruit about to be cooked, as for apple, almond ; almond flavour being found in the pip of the apple, and so on. The white of the egg is then stirred in, then the thin rings of fruit are dropped in and taken out on the point of a knife, dropped into boiling fat and fried a golden maize colour. With a sharp knife slice the cheese, spread apricot jam on each alternate slice, cover the other with a thin strip of cream cheese, drop into the batter, which should be flavoured with noyeau essence, (see pages 57 or 47) lift out of the batter, fry in boiling fat or oil. Drain on 2 papers, dust with castor sugar, serve with sherry or other sweet white wine, Fritters a la G. A. Sala. Ingredients: Cream Cheese, Apricot Paste or Jam, Fritter Batter, White Castor Sugar Noyeau Essence. 1 oz. No. 4. 2 Drops.362 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. Cake Fritters, Ingredients:— Stale Pound Cake. 2 oz. Red and Black Currant Jelly, As required. Fine Sifted Castor Sugar, „ Batter, No. 4. (See page 361.) Slice the cake into thin slices about the length of finger biscuits, and of a similar size. Pair them, two for each fritter. Spread a Mn coating of either red or black currant jam on each alternate slice. Press the corresponding plain slice upon it. Dip it in No. 4. Batter, and fry in hoiling fat at once, let it become a golden maize colour, drain on two papers. Dust over with sugar, and serve. Wine or syrup is served with this—a light sweet wine is best. Egg Fritters, (i.) Ingredients:— Hard Boiled Egg, 1. Grated or Potted Meat. 1 Teaspoonful. Pepper, &c. As required. Butter, ,, Batter, No. 1. or 3. Boil an egg for 15 minutes. Let it be quite covered with water. Lift it out the end of the specified time, and put into cold water for a few minutes. Peel, cut in half and take the yolk out, make it into a forcemeat with ham, that is grated or potted meat may be used. Replace in the egg pressing it firmly into the cavities. Then with a sharp knife slice into rings. Dip them in batter, fry in boiling fat. Dust with salt, and serve when they are cooked a golden brown and drained. Garnish with fried parsley.HOTEL AND RESTAURANT COOKERY. 363 Egg Fritters. (2.) Ingredients Hard Boiled Egg, Bitter Almonds, Sweet do. Castor Sugar, Cognac, Batter, 1. 1. 2. As required. 3 Drops. No. 4. Boil the egg hard, cut in the centre, remove the yolk, bruise in a mortar the 3 almonds blanched, and J tea- spoonful of castor sugar. When almost a paste add the brandy. Refill the white of the egg with the yolk paste firmly pressed in, cut in slices, dip in batter, fry in fine oil. When cooked drain on two papers, arrange on a plate. Dust with castor sugar, and serve quickly with wine or wine sauce. Take half of a cucumber, remove the centre or seed portion. Prepare a fine forcemeat of white meats, and fill the cucumber. Pare it, slice, dip it in flour that has been seasoned, then at once in the batter. Fry a golden brown and drain. Dust with salt, garnish with cucumber rings and lemon quarters. Serve with or without gravy in a separate tureen. N. B. Vegetable marrows, cold potatoes, cold boiled carrots, and beetroots, can all be forces cut in slices and fried in butter as garnishes to various dishes—or served as plats by themselves. Cucumber Fritter. Ingredients:— Cucumber, Forcemeat, Batter, As required. No. 1, 2, or 3.•364 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. Pear Fritters. Ingredients Pears, As required. Castor Sugar, „ Batter, No. 4. Peel and slice the pears lengthwise, dip each slice in castor sugar, then plunge in the batter. Lift it out on the point of a flat bladed knife. Drop into the boiling oil. Fry a delicate brown. Drain, dust with castor sugar, and serve hot with wine or wine sauce, or plain, as preferred by the guest. Apple Fritters are dressed in the same manner, only cut into thin rings. Bananas are sliced after peeling. Steeped in wine and sugar, drained, covered with No. 4. batter, fried and served. Orange Fritters are made by peeling the oranges, removing all the white pith, dividing the fruit into lobes, dipping in sugar, then in batter and frying as above. Cherry Fritters and Plum Flitters. Skin the fruit and pro- ceed as for pears. These fruits are usually stoned. Odd Fritters. Ingredients:— Cold Ground Rice Pudding, „ Potatoe (lemon,) Pudding. Plum Puding. Remains of Cakes, &c. Fruits and sweet biscuits are all utilized and dipped in either No. 1. batter, sweetened, or No. 4. fried, and sent to table dusted with sugar. Wine sauce,HOTEL AND RESTAURANT COOKERY. 365 Custard Apple Fritters. Ingredients: Custard Apple, Fine Sifted Sugar, Nutmeg, Batter, 1. As required. No. 4. Custard apples are rather dear, 36s. per dozen, but they are a delicious fruit. To cook, cut the apple into rings, dip in sugar seasoned with nutmeg, and at once into the batter and then into the frying-pan. When a golden brown drain, dust with sugar and serve. Peel the mushrooms, which should be small flap or cham- pignons, cut as many slices of chicken and ham as you wish to have fritters, lay the thin slice of ham on the table, lay the slice of chicken on the top and the mushrooms on that, dust with pepper. Trim the ham down the side and one end, roll up so that the trimmed end is outside, place the trimmings of ham inside, fasten with a small skewer so placed that it can be easily withdrawn after cooking, dip in the batter, fry, drain, and serve. Garnish with fried parsley. Chicken Kromeskies a la Russe. Ingredients: Chicken, Ham, cold boiled, Mushrooms, Pepper, Salt, Fritter Batter, Cold in slices. An equal number of slices. 1 to each slice. As required. No. 1.366 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. Mutton Fritters. Ingredients:— Thin Slices of Mutton, As required. Pepper, Salt, ,, ,, Batter, either No. 2. or 3. Dip the slices in the pepper and salt, then fry in the batter chosen. There must be plenty of fat, enough for them to swim in, it can be strained after the frying is over and used again, this is for small families. In large hotels the frying kettles and tanks are always ready at hand with plenty of oil and fat. Omelettes and Souffles. Omelettes are savoury or sweet, and admit of great variety. They are considered by many very difficult to pre- pare,—but, so is all food difficult of preparation where the cook is not au fait as to the most rudimentary rules of cookery. Frying is one of the most simple methods of preparing food. Yet how few will take the trouble to bear in mind, that if you want the goods to be nice looking, as well as tender, and also to be free from grease, they must be put into fat or oil of a high degree of heat. Omelette cooking is no exception to this rule, whether savoury or sweet. Omelette aux fines herhes^ Oinelettes Gonflee or Souffle, all require well seasoned pans, and that the butter should be boiling, and well distributed over the surface of the frying pan, before the omelette is placed in it. A clean pan is an essential, and a dry pan is imperative. If the pan is dusted out with a damp cloth it will spoil the entree. The pan should be like silver, so bright, and it must also be seasoned. To season, dust it with a clean white duster that is dry. Put a piece of cooking butter, e, unsalted white) aboutHOTEL AND RESTAURANT COOKERY. 367 J oz , place the pan over the fire, oscillate when the butter is put in till it is melted and becoming hot. Next take clean paper, and work the butter well into the pan and round the edges, so that every part may be thoroughly seasoned. When this is done it is ready for using. Mince a very small shalot, (or a portion of one,) then chop parsley, lemon thyme, marjoram, basil, chervil, as fine as possible. Add pepper only. Beat the whole together till they are thoroughly mixed. Place the omelette pan over the fire, put in the butter. Commence to shake the pan, so that when oiled it spreads over the surface, and that the pan may not become too hot and burn the butter. When the butter is at boiling point, perfectly still and free from spluttering and noise, with an almost imperceptible vapour, (not a smoke) rising, that is the moment to put in the omelette mixture; give it a stir round in the basin before doing so. Work the pan round to free the eggs, and cook till the eggs are half set. The fire must not be too fierce. Tilt the pan towards the handle, and with a broad bladed knife throw the half nearest the handle over the other, doubling it in fact. Slip it down to the front of the pan, and cook partly on the edge and bottom of the pan. The shape is a perfect half moon. Let the colour be that of ripe maize, a golden brown. Serve on a very hot plate, and let it be eaten at once, omelettes are no use, and are Omelette aux fines Herbes, (I) Ingredients:— Eggs, Butter, 2. 1 oz. As required. 1 Tablespoonful. 1. Salt and Pepper, Herbs, Shalot,368 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. spoilt if left long after cooking. From the pan to the table. It is the custom abroad to cook them on spirit stoves on the dining tables en famille, and at a side table for Table d' Holes, and large dinners. Salt should be dusted on after the omelette is dished, although it hardens the albumen or white of the egg, it also assists to strengthen the whites like powdered alum, yet it is a fact that an omelette aux fines herbs, or meat, &c., is always a success, when the salt is not added till afler leaving the pan. It is lighter and does not grow tough or leathery so soon. Oyster Omelette, (2) Ingredienls:— Oysters, 4. Eggs, 2. Grated Lemon Rind, 1 inch. Pepper and Salt, As required. Butter, 1 oz. Drain the oysters on a sieve whilst you prepare the omelette. Drop the eggs into a basin, add the pepper and grated lemon rind, melt the butter in the pan, and when quite boiling, pour in the eggs. Stir to mix them with the butter, and shake the pan well, so as to free the omelette. When the eggs are half done, lay the oysters systematically and neatly on the half of the omelette farthest from the handle. Tilt the pan with the handle down, and then throw over the side of the egg mixture nearest you on to the oysters, so that the upper edge shall extend just a trifle beyond the lower rim. Cook for a minute more. Dish on a very hot plate. Dust with salt and serve at once.HOTEL AND RESTAURANT COOKERY. 369 Tongue and Chicken Omelette. (3) Ingredients: Tongue Minced, Chicken do. 1 Tablespoonful. Eggs, Pepper and Salt, Thyme and Parsley, Butter, As required. \ Teaspoonful. 1 oz. 3. Mince the tongue, chicken, and herbs, put them into a basin, dust them over with pepper, add thejW^^ of the eggs. As these meat omelettes are heavier in quality than either of the preceeding, it is usual to whip the whites, and stir them in after the yolks have been thoroughly mixed with the meats. Proceed exactly as in No. 1. Serve as hot as possible. Put the eggs into the basin with a teaspoonful of sugar, mix them together. Melt the butter in the pan, and when thoroughly melted, and the pan covered with the oiled butter, let it get very hot, and pour in the mixture. Let it half set, double over and finish frying. Sprinkle the rest of the sugar over. Glace with the salamander. By making the iron red hot, placing on its stand, and holding the omelette under it till the sugar is melted and slightly brown. Pour Omelette au Rhum. (4.) {Rum Omelette.) Ingredients:— Eggs, Butter, 2. 1 oz. 1 oz. i Glass. i Glass. (See page 49) Sifted Sugar, Rum, Bay Rum, X370 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. the ruQi round. Just as it is entering the saloon door, set fire to the rum and serve blazing. In some hotels the rum only is poured round, the bay rum in a small liqueur glass, is served with it,—and the sugar is caramelled in strips, the hand gridiron (of wire) being made red hot and dropped on it, this makes it into stripes or bars, and is Omelette au rhum a UAmericaine, Omelettes aux cognac, curacoa, marischino, Noyeau, L'eau d' Or, &c., are all dressed in a similar way, but only the first (brandy) is ever ignited like the rum omelette. Omelettes aux SiropSy either of raspberry, lemon, pineapple, strawberry, currant, cherry, or jargonelle syrups are all made, and as in No. 4. And the syrup or shrub poured round these, are very delicious for temperance families, and those who care not for spirituous liqueurs and strong cordials. Separate the yolks from the whites. Mix the sugar with the yolks and the noyeau essence. Whip the whites of the eggs to a stiff foam, so that they will bear the weight of an egg on them. Stir this into the yolks and thoroughly in- corporate it with them. Have a small omelette pan without long handle, very hot. Put in the butter, let it run over every inch of the interior of the dish. Give the Gonfle mixture another stir, pour into the dish, bake about 7 minutes in a moderate oven, serve at once. This is erroneously called Omelette Souffle by many cooks, and so taught to their apprentices, but in France, Switzerland and Germany, the trained cooks call it by its proper name Gonfle, Omelette Gonfle. Ingredients:— Eggs, Sifted Sugar, Noyeau Essence, Butter, 1 oz. 3 Drops. 1 oz.HOTEL AND RESTAURANT COOKERY, 371 Omelette Souffle. Fletcher's hot air ovens, or a charcoal arrangement, are the best fuel supplies for preparing this dish. Ingredients Eggs, 3 or 4. Sifted White Sugar, 1 oz. Vanilla Essence, 3 Drops. Butter, 1 oz. Separate the yolks from the whites of the eggs, to the yolks add half the sugar and 2 drops of Vanilla, now stir them up thoroughly, whip the whites to a fine strong froth, so that they will bear the weight of an egg, stir in the sifted sugar, and the Vanilla. Have the butter melted in the pan and quite boiling, pour in the yolks and let them set over the fire, then add the foam and set from the top, continuing to keep the bottom of the pan hot, and finish cooking the yolks. When the white is set, and a pale fawn colour, dish the ome- lette soufiie on a large circular dish, lay preserve in little heaps round, or merely strew sugar over the top. Others serve with wine or syrup round, or jam sauce made of a tablespoonful of any jam that may be preferred, such as apricot, greengage or raspberry, mixed with 2 tablespoonfuls of boiling water, these must not on any account be poured over the omelette but round. Omelette Souffle au Confiture. Ingredients: Eggs, 3 or 4. Jam, 1 TablespoonfuL Sifted Sugar, „ Vanilla, or other Essence, 3 Drops. Butter, 1 oz. Prepare the eggs as in the preceding, the only difference37^ THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. is that the jam is spread on the top of the yolks before the whites are added. Finish and serve as above in the plain omelette souffle recipe. In the south of France and some parts of Italy the follow- ing omelettes are much in vogue, although except at the tables of a few epicures one seldom meets with them in this country. Abroad oil is used instead of butter. Omelette au Parmesan. (Parmesan Cheese Omelette.) Ingredients: Break the eggs into a basin, add a shake of pepper, rub the pan with a clove of garlic, then melt the butter, pour in the egg mixture when the butter boils, shake it well to free it from the pan, next lay the cheese on one half, turn over the other, fry one minute and serve. American omelettes of ** Sweet Green Mountain Corn," (canned) salmon minced, lobster, ditto, tinned meats, &c. are all made from the receipt. No. 3. (page 369) viz., Tongue and Chicken Omelettes. Eggs, Grated Cheese, Cayenne Pepper, 2. 1 Tablespoonful. 1 Dust. 1 oz. Butter, Pepper, As required. Omelette a la Vapeur. (Steamed Omelette.) Ingredients: Eggs, Sugar, 3 or 4. 1 oz. Lemon Essence, Butter, 4 Drops. 1 oz.373 HOTEL AND RESTAURANT COOKERY. Separate the yolks of the eggs from the whites, beat the batter as directed in the two preceding. Mix two-thirds of the sugar with the yolks and one-third with the whites, oil the butter in a flat basin or jar, a quart preserve or jam pot will do, butter the bottom and sides well right to the top, pour in the yolk, put a paper cover over the top. If oiled on the inside it will be waterproof, stand the jar in a pan with boil- ing water that will reach about halfway up the jar, then put on the lid and let it steam 2J minutes by the clock, lift out the jar, add the whites, and if preserves or cheese mixture it is laid between the yellow and white portions of the omelette at this time, return to the pan with the paper cover on, steam minutes longer. Turn out and serve rapidly with wine, liqueur, or syrup round if liked. SOUFFLES Are very popular but they require much care in their pre- paration and still more in their serving. They are either baked or boiled, cheese souffle is generally baked. One of the most popular last season was a,— Souffle de Giber. (Game Souffle.) Ingredients Any kind of Cold Game, 4 ozs. Eggs, 5 or 6, Truffles, 1. Grated Lemon Rind, As required. Butter, 1 oz. Cayenne Pepper, As required. Mince the meat into square dice, any kind of cold game will do, pheasant, partridge, grouse, hare, snipe, woodcock, moorhens, are ail suitable, and are better if mixed. Dust the meat over with pepper, cayenne, and grated lemon rind, put374 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. the butter into a small stewpan and place it on the hob to melt, oil the souffle-tin, and also a band of paper, about 3 to 4 inches high, separate the yolks and whites of the eggs, if they are small use 6, whip the whites to a fine firm froth, place the stewpan over the fire, stir in the meat and let it be- come quite hot and thoroughly covered with butter, then lift the pan from the fire and add the yolks of the eggs, stir it well until it is quite thoroughly mixed, mix in the whipped whites of eggs, pour into the hot souffle-tin, bake about 20 minutes. Slip the tin into the silver case, take off the paper, and serve at once, with game sauce or jelly. Ramequins. Oil the ramequin cases and prepare the following:-^ Ingredients: Oil the butter and work it into the yolks of the eggs, add the cream and next the cheese, add cayenne and black pepper, whip the whites to a stiff foam, stir in with the cheese mixture, three-parts fill your case, stand on rice or charcoal and bake. Yolks of Eggs, Parmesan Cheese, 4 ozs. grated. 1 oz. oiled. 1 TablespoonfuL 4 Whipped to foam. As required. Butter, Cream, Whites of Eggs, Spices, Lapin de Diable. (Devilled (Welsh) Rabbit. Ingredienh: Brown Whole Meal Biscuits, Milk, Curry Powder, Butter or Dripping, Cheese, Cayenne, As required. do. do. do. do. ^Ib. As required. 7.HOTEL AND RESTAURANT COOKERY. Dip the biscuits in milk, put butter or dripping into a pan, fry the biscuits after draining and dipping in curry powder till they are nicely browned, cut the cheese into 7 equal por- tions, lay one on each biscuit and place them in the oven until the cheese has melted and spread over them, dust them with cayenne to taste, and a sensation of curry powder, serve quickly. Toast may be used buttered, and the curry powder rubbed in, this will require no frying like the biscuits, the frying makes the latter soft whilst warm. Cheese Pastry. Ingredients: Parmesan Cheese, 6 ozs. Butter, 1 oz. Flour, 1 oz. Cayenne, As required. Egg, 1. Oil the butter, work it into the egg, dust the cheese with cayenne, mix the self-raising flour with it, and work into a paste with some of the egg. Flour the board and pin, roll out, stamp into fancy designs, brush over with a little of the egg, and bake a nut brown colour, dust with grated cheese, cool and serve. Macaroni au Vin, Ingredients: Macaroni, \ lb. Butter, 2 ozs. Red Wine, 1 Pint. Parmesan Cheese, \ lb. grated. Spices, As required. Lemon Rind, 2 Square inches. Parboil the macaroni, and stew in common red wine, (vin ordinaire) with lemon rind, cloves, coriander, and cinnamon376 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. to taste. When it is tender, in about 1^- hours, lift it out on a hot dish, pour the wine that is left over, dress the macaroni with a thick coating of Parmesan, place little pieces of butter here and there, brown with the salamander and serve hot. Equal parts of stock and wine are frequently used, but the taste of the guest or host must be consulted. Macaroni et Giber. Ingredients: Parmesan, J lb. Minced Game, 1 lb. Macaroni, i lb. Stock, 11 Pints. Red Wine, J Pint. Currant Jelly, 1 Tablespoonful. Lemon, 3 Rings. Spices, As required. Stew the macaroni in the stock for 1 hour with spices, in a Bain Marie or porridge pan is the best, so that it may not burn, then add the wine, jelly, and lemon, also the meat when the macaroni is tender. Dish after warming the meat, strew Parmesan over the top, brown and serve as quickly as possible. Curd Cheesecakes, (i.) Ingredients:— Curds, i Pint Measureful. Parmesan Grated, do. do. Eggs, 3. Cayenne, To taste. Salt, do. Buy cheese curds, or prepare them as at page 183. Mix the curds with the yolks of the eggs. Season the Parmesan cheese crumbs, with cayenne and a little salt, stir into theHOTEL AND RESTAURANT COOKERY. 377 curd mixture. Whip the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and gently incorporate with the curds, &c. Have ready cheese cake pans lined with No 1. paste, (page 304,) and three parts fill each with the mixture. Bake in the oven, with the door a little ajar, so that the tops may rise and crack. They should be a light chestnat brown on the top. Curd Cheesecakes. (2.) Ingredients:— Curds, J Pint. Eggs, 3. Lemon Essence, 3 Drops. Sugar, 1 Tablespoonful. Dried Currants, or Cherries, At pleasure. Break up the curd, (page 183,) mix with the eggs, flavour with lemon essence. Sweeten and add currants, if liked. Three parts fill patty pans lined with No II. paste, (page 305.) Bake, dust with double refined powdered sugar, and serve. If dried cherries are used, mince them before mixing the curd. The Wallace Bannock. Ingredients :— Oat Cake, (Bannock) 1 Quartered. Fresh Butter, As required. Cheese, 4 Slices. Egg, 1 Poached to each quarter. Pepper and Salt, As required. Butter the cake lightly, lay a slice of cheese on each bannock, and place the tin or plate in front of the fire, or in the oven, so that whilst the eggs are being poached it may toast or soften. Poach the eggs, dust the cheese with pepper. Lay the eggs on the top of each quarter, and dust378 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. with salt and pepper, Serve quickly enough for 4 people. Old Sir David Wallace, the Jacobite and outlaw, was a famous hand at these smacks, so his descendants say, and when he could not get an egg he did without, and a leaf of kail (cabbage,) from the kail pot, half cooked, did as well. We prefer eggs and our kail cooked. JELLIES. It is much cheaper in large hotels to buy the jellies whole- sale, or otherwise the Chef to manufacture in bulk. Gelatine Jellies. Can be made from the directions on the various makers* packets, and aspics are made quite similarly to sherry or port, using savouries in the shape of herbs and spices instead of sugar and vinegar in lieu of lemon zest acid. Here is a general one for family use,— Aspic Jelly. Uses; For meat, fowl, game, or fish garnish. A savoury jelly. Ingredients: Gelatine, 1 oz. White Wine Vinegar, j- Fluid oz. Whole White Peppers, Cloves, Allspice, 6 of each. Mace, 1 Blade. Lemon Rind, 4 Inches. Tarragon Vinegar, 1 Teaspoonful. Thyme, Parsley, Marjoram, and Bayleaf, A bouquet. White and Shells of Eggs, 2. Water, IJ Pints. Sherry, 1 Glass, May be added or not, at will.HOTEL AND RESTAURANT COOKERY. 379 Soak the gelatine in water for 3 hours, put it into a clean enamel or preserving pan, (we use copper stew pans) with the li pints of water, the herbs tied together, the vinegar, sherry, and other ingredients above mentioned. The whites of the eggs a little beaten with the crushed shells before being put into the pan. Whisk continually till it comes to the boil, when the froth has risen and the aspic begins to ^rise in the pan let it have a good boil up to the very top, then turn down the gas, let it stand 3 or 4 minutes to clear, have a felt jelly bag wrung out from warm water, or a proper straining cloth of lawn ready, strain the jelly through. It should be like fine, clear, pale, dry sherry. Set in moulds, &c., as you wish to use it. For red, colour with cochineal; for intense gold or yellow, use salfron, or red carrot colour- ing. Calves feet, 2, would make the same quantity of jelly; 1 cow's heel, do.; knuckle of veal, 2^ lbs., the same. If a meat flavour is desired with the aspic, use 2 ozs. of raw, lean beef minced, and only 1 egg. Lemon Jelly. Ingredients: Gelatine, 1 oz. Lemons, 2. Cloves, 6. Coriander, J Teaspoonful. Cinnamon, 1 Inch. Nutmeg, Piece as large as a green pea. Sugar, 4 ozs. White of Eggs and Shells, 2. Sherry, 1 Glass. Water, IJ Pints. Peel the lemon very fine, express and strain the juice, dis- solve the gelatine in water. Put all the ingredients into the pan and work out as in preceding receipt.380 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. Calfs Foot Jelly. Blanch a pair of calves' feet. Divide and stew them in about 2 or 3 quarts of water. Let the water be cold when they are put in. Skim off all the grey scum, oil, &c., that rises, let it stew as slotvly as possible for 8 to 10 hours. Then strain it off into a clean basin, and leave it all night to cool, there should be about 1 quart. In the morning remove every trace of grease. Dip a clean soft cloth in warm water, wring it dry, and wipe the top and round the edges of the stock, so as to remove oil or grease. Then put the stock into a clean pan, dissolve and prepare exactly as for Lemon Jelly above, using the melted instead of dissolved gelatine. Cowheel Jelly. Use a cowheel as above, it may afterwards be used for sauce or pie, when the stock is strained off. Mock Calf's Foot Jelly, (i.) Four sheep's trotters, prepare as calves' feet above, and finish as aspic or lemon. Mock Calf's Foot Jelly. (2.) Two pigs' feet or hocks, and a few hens, turkies, and other feet blanched and finished as for calf's foot jelly. ICES. "The best materials pay the best in the end,'* is a maxim that ought to be observed, especially in ice making. The street ice vendor uses condensed milk, water, saffron, and lemon zest or lime juice, but look at the price he gets ! We charge 6d. and Is. for high class ices, and they ought to be of the very best materials in the market. Get a good machine, Marshall's, for instance, and then theHOTEL AND RESTAURANT COOKERY. 381 work can be done in a cleanly, tidy manner without a spatula. Directions are usually sent with the machines as to the quantity of ice and salt or freezing agent required. And such &c*s as spatulas, spades, freezing tubs, with taps near the bottom for the escape of water dripping from the melting ice are explained, and the method of working. The first thing to do is to prepare the subject to be iced. Belle Vue Ices Are made as follows:—The juice of lemons, or lemon zest, 1 pint, sugar 1 lb., arrowroot 1 oz., water 3 pints, lemon essence 10 drops. Boil 2|- pints of the water, dissolve the sugar therein, add the lemon juice, and let it again come to the boil, skim off any scum that rises. Mix the arrowroot with the i pint of cold water. Stir it into the boiling water. Let it boil, stirring the while, till the arrowroot becomes quite clear. Then lift the pan off the fire. Add the lemon essence, and put it away to cool. Put it into the freezer when you are ready, and close the lid. Pack the ice and salt round. Of course it is known that the ice must be pounded very fine and mixed with about J or a little more of its bulk in salt. Commence turning the wheel and continue till it feels hard, as if the inside apparatus were clogged. Then open the freezer, work the ice from the sides and " blend " z. e. with the wooden spatula work it till it becomes smooth, and the rough granular appearance of a common street ice is dispelled, work it again. Then fill your moulds and keep them in ice till wanted. Or cut in blocks and wrap in white paper, lay on the ice till called for. Then take off the paper and serve. Cream Ices Are made from double cream sweetened and flavoured, and worked as above.382 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. Iced Puddings. Make a rich custard of eggs and milk, sweeten, flavour with bay rum, lemon, vanilla or any favourite essence; freeze as in Belle Vue Ices, Fruit Cream Ices. Are a puree of fresh fruit; say raspberries ^ pint, this is put to IJ pints of cream, flavoured and sweetened. Then frozen and worked as above. Or essences and colorings may may be used instead of the fruits. Lemon Water Ice. Take J lb. of block sugar and with it grate off the rinds of half a dozen small fine-rinded lemons, as the sugar absorbs the essential oil and coloured rind, remove it, using a silver- ed knife for the purpose. Express and strain the juice of the lemons and add it to the sugar. Make this into a syrup with 1 lb. of sugar extra, and 2 pints of water. Strain and clear it, beat the whites of four eggs, or use dessicated whites, or dry albumen in the same proportion, sift in a little dry sugar,—say 1 oz. of castor,—then mix with the lemon syrup, freeze and serve in either blocks or glasses, or from moulds with syrup round. Orange Water Ice. As above, using half Seville and half St. Michael's oranges in lieu of lemons.HOTEL AND RESTAURANT COOKERY. 383 CHAPTER XI. BISCUITS, CAKES, BREADS. ITH the present price of flour it is almost as cheap to VV buy dessert biscuits, as to make them. However there are a few that we still make at home, for instance;— Peel off a very thin rind from 1 doz. Seville and J doz, St. Michael's oranges. Put the rinds into a pan, cover them with cold water, let them come slowly to the boil. Then strain off the water, cover them with fresh cold, and boil till they are tender. Take the rinds out, weigh them. Add their weight in sugar. Pound in a mortar till they are quite a paste, and pulped. Add the juice of one or two of the oranges, to make the paste. Also the white of an egg, and more sugar if necessary. The paste must be stiff and yet roll out properly. Roll it into a thin sheet, perforate it, and leave it to dry on oiled sheets over the hot plate. When it is fairly set, cut it into long narrow strips. Ice over with glace (No. i, page 306) and finish baking in the oven. Take high dried flour 6 ozs., the yolks of 2, and whites of 3 eggs, castor sugar sifted 1 tablespoonful, cream 1 table- spoonful, rosewater 2 tablespoonfuls. Put the flour in a basin, drop in the yolks of eggs, after mixing the sugar thoroughly with the flour whilst dry, mix the rose water and cream together, and make it a batter not unlike fritter batter, use water if there is not liquid enough. It should Orange Biscuits. Ice Wafers, White and Pink.384 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. drape from the spatula. Whip the whites of the eggs to a stiff foam and stir into the batter. Oil the wafer tongs, see that they are perfectly clean and free from rust. Pour in sufficient batter to form a thin coating, close the tongs, and cook them over a charcoal fire. They must not burn. When done, roll them round a wafer stick, and stand them on end to dry. For pink wafers, colour the batter with cochineal. Are of far larger proportion in our hotel and club work, and in large kitchens the varieties are very numerous, that pass through the cook's hands during the year. Take 1 lb. of cooking butter free from salt, beat it to a cream, beat in 1 lb. of powdered lump sugar, the yolks of 3 eggs, the orange flower water, and the whites whipped to a stiff froth. Next sift in gently by degrees the self-raising flour. Have the cake rings lined with paper. Have them also properly hot. Pour in the mixture till each ring is about 2 thirds full, scatter currants, (washed, picked and dried,) over the top, cover with buttered paper and bake. Ice the top as directed in ingredients. The Cakes Irving Cakes. Ingredients:— Butter, Lump Sugar, Orange Flower Water, Self-raising Flour, Eggs, Currants, Icing as at 2 tablespoonfuls. li lbs. 3. (chips.) ilb. Page 306, No. 2. 1 lb. 1 lb.HOTEL AND RESTAURANT COOKERY. 385 Corn Cakes. Ingredients:— White Wheat Flour, 1 lb. Sweet Indian Meal, f lb. Cooking Butter, i lb. Sugar, 2 oz. Eggs, 3. Baking Powder, 1 Dessertspoonful. Milk and Water, As required. Boil 1 pint of milk, sweeten with the sugar, and pour over the Indian meal. Let it soak 2 or 3 hours. Mix the baking powder with the flour whilst dry. Cream the butter, add the eggs, and then the Indian meal by degrees. Make it into a batter, using the water and milk necessary. It should be very thin, then sift in the flour; dredge it in is the best plan, ^ stirring with a wooden spatula the whole time. It must form a stiffish batter now, that will drape heavily from the spoon. Butter tins and have them hot. Pour in about 1^^ inches deep in each tin. Bake in a sharp oven. Sweet Corn Cakes. (A Breakfast Dish.) Ingredients:— Sweet Mountain Corn, 1 Tin. Honey, ^ lb. Eggs, 4. Milk, i Pint. Flour, i Tablespoonful. Sugar, 2 oz. Lard or Sweet Dripping for frying, (Cooking Butter if preferred.)386 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. Open the sweet corn tin round the side, and empty the contents into a basin. Mix the dry wheat flour with the corns. Make a mixture of the eggs well beaten, and the new milk, mix this with the corn, sweeten with the sugar. Put some lard, dripping or butter into the frying pan. When it has stopped spluttering and is still and quiet, put in about 3 tablespoonfuls of the mixture, so as to form a round cake. Fry a goldeh brown,—turn the cake and fry the other side the same way, then lay it on the hot dish on which it is to be served. Spread honey over the cake. Fry another the same size, and lay on the top—spread , honey over. When all the cakes are fried cut into four and eat as quickly as possible, using a fork for the purpose. A Good Rice Cake, Ingredients:— Ground Rice, i lb. Self-raising Flour, 6 ozs. Butter, i lb. Sugar Pounded and Sifted, 6 ozs. Lemon Essence, 5 Drops. Eggs, 5. Cream the butter. It must oil, but be like a thick white cream, add the ground and sifted sugar, and essence by degrees, beating steadily. Next add the eggs one by one, beating the whole time. Sift in the rice, and lastly th flour. Do not spare trouble in mixing, for if well mixed i turns out better. Add a glass of cognac, if it is liked. I improves the keeping qualities of the cake. Paper the tins, and three parts fill with the mixture. Bake in a moderate oven.HOTEL AND RESTAURANT COOKERY. 3§7 Breakfast Cakes. Ingrediejiis: Flour, Milk, Butter, Yeast, Sugar, Jib. J Pint. 1 oz. 2 ozs. 1 oz. Rub the butter into the flour. Warm the milk a little, and mix with the yeast, (German or solid.) Let it rise to form a head, and give it the sugar to feed on. Then mix it up with the milk. Make the flour into dough, cover over with a cloth, and put in a warm corner to rise. When it has stood about an hour, form it into cakes after kneading. Prove them and bake in a moderate oven. Do not cut them open whilst hot to butter, they should be parted by the hands, and buttered without pressing the crumb down to make it sad. Rub the butter into the flour, mix the yeast with the sugar and half the milk, beat up the egg, put the rest of the milk to it, make the flour into a dough with the yeast and the mixture, cover it with a cloth and leave it by the fire to rise. When it has risen, knead and mould into little loaves, and bake in small round tins. Where large quantities of oysters Dinner Bread. Ingredients:— Flour, Butter, Yeast, Milk, Sugar, Egg, 2 lbs. ilb. 4 ozs. i Pint, i oz. 1.388 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. canned are used in the kitchens, the tins make capital dinner bread moulds, the tinsmith will turn the edges over a wire for a few pence per dozen. Grease the tins for this bread and rub the tops over with butter, it makes the crust glossy when they are rubbed whilst hot. Breakfast Cake. Ingredients: Flour, 2 lbs. Butter, 2 ozs. Milk or Water, f Pint. Salt, 1 Saltspoonful. Baking Powder, 3 Heaped teaspoonfuls. Rub the butter lightly into the flour, then add the baking powder, mix it well and use Freeman's, there is no alum or astringent in it, and the cakes may be given to invalids, mix with tepid milk or water, (the latter is lighter and keep moist longer) cut with a paste cutter into rings of teacake size, set them on floured trays, bake, brush over with warm milk when nearly cooked, and serve plain, hot or cold. They are very nice cut into three rings when s^ale, toasted and honey or butter spread over. Condensed milk makes a capital dressing for toast and is served as Cream Honey Toast in the Menus. Buckwheat Cakes, No. i. Ingredients: Buckwheat Flour, 1 lb. Dried and sifted. Eggs, 2. Water, As required. Baking Powder, 1 Teaspoonful. Dry and sift the flour, and when cool mix in the bakin^ powder. Drop the yolks of eggs into one basin and th whites into another, mix the yolks with a small quantity oHOTEL AND RESTAURANT COOKERY, 389 water and beat them up in it, add more water and form the buckwheat into a fair batter that will drape from the spoon, whisk the eggs to a stiff foam and stir them into the batter. Take the batter ladle and drop into boiling fat (good drip- ping) say 2 ozs. for first cake, i oz. for each one after. Cook them over a nice steady regular fire. When the cakes become cellular like English crumpets or oatcakes, turn them, place on a dish and serve with butter, honey, or molasses. Buckwheat Cakes, No. 2. Ingredients: Buckwheat Flour, |- lb. Egg Powder, 1 Teaspoonful. Baking „ do. Water, As required. Mix the powders with the flour, then make into a light batter with water, fry and serve as in No I. or with sugar strewn over, jam, &c. Buckwheat Cakes, No. 3. Ingredients: Buckwheat Flour, f !b. Yeast, German, 1 oz. Water and Sugar, As required. Salt, 1 Saltspoonful. Put the buckwheat into a warm basin, mix the yeast with a tablespoonful of sugar, moisten with ^ pint of tepid water, and allow it to stand for half an hour to form a head, then mix with the buckwheat flour, add a little salt, and when the flour is made into a batter that will drape, leave it an hour, then stir up and fry as before, or cook on a muffin plate, serve with sugar, or butter and dust sugar over.SgO THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. Luncheon Cakes. Ingredients: Self-raising Flour, Butter, Eggs, Sugar, Mixed Spice, Baking Powder, Sultanas, Candied Orange Peel, Water, H lbs. ilb. ilb. 1 TeaspoonfuL 2 Teaspoonfuls. 2. As required. ilb. ilb. Beat the butter to a cream, work in the sugar, then separ- ate the yolks and whites of the eggs and mix the yolks with the sugar and butter. Mix the baking powder with the flour, and gradually work it into the eggs and butter, using water when it becomes necessary. Rub the sultanas in a clean cloth and pick them, have the orange peel minced and mixed into the cake, work it very well, whip the whites of the eggs to a stiff foam, and work gently in the last thing. Paper the tins, put in the cake, only three-parts fill the tins, bake for about 1 hour, turn the cake out of the tins to cool, and stand the cake or cakes on its side. N.B. It is important to notice that all raisins, currants, &c., should be cleaned by whatever process the Chef ox cook uses, the wet or dry, immediately on coming into the stores. The wet process is to wash the currants in sieves, rub them in cloths, pick out the stones, spread them on trays in a cool oven to dry or in front of the fire. The dry is to put the fruit in a sieve, cover with flour and rub them, the dirt and refuse falling through. There are also fruit cleaning machines for large quantities. When these fruits are cleaned a few now and again, it is a waste of time that might be better employed.HOTEL AND RESTAURANT COOKERY. 391 Savoy Biscuits. Ingredients: Vienna Flour, Ground and Sifted Lump Sugar, Eggs. Butter, ilb. 7. 2 ozs. Warm a round bottomed metal cake-mixing pan, put into it the sugar, break the eggs (chips will do) into a cup separate- ly, one by one, and put into the basin with the sugar, be care- ful about this as one bad egg will spoil the rest along with the sugar,—commence to whisk with a switch whisk, (wire) beat for quite 20 to 30 minutes over the hot plate till it is warm through, lift it aside and whisk down the head again, add the butter oiled and sift in the flour, stir the latter in very gently. Fill the finger moulds about half full. They should be carefully oiled first, or pipe the mixture on to paper, to take them off the paper when cooked, reverse it and brush over with a paste brush dipped in warm water. Remove the biscuits and pair them, cool and put away. N. B. " Chip eggs'* are a trade term for eggs slightly chipped, cracked, or broken. Set a sponge with 2 oz. German yeast, mixed with J lb. sugar, and IJ pints of tepid w^ater. Mix the flour, 6 lbs., with about 1 tablespoonful of salt. Make a well in the centre of the flour. When the yeast has risen to the surface Dinner Rolls. Ingredients Flour, 6 lbs. 2 oz. German Yeast, Refined Pearl Sugar, Salt, Butter, ilb. 1 Tablespoonful. i lb.392 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. of the tepid water, mix it up with the sugar and water and put it in the well. Make it into a thin batter, dust with flour and leave it out of a draught to rise, do not hurry the rising, give it time to rise and begin to fall. Oil J lb. of cooking butter and stir in. Make up the dough with tepid water, knead it and let it rest an hour, then fashion into rolls, put on a tray, prove and bake in a quick oven. Short Bread. Ingredients: Flour, 1 lb. Butter, 7 oz. Eggs, 2. Ammonia Water, 2 Tablespoonfuls. Water, If required. Lemon Essence, 2 Drops. Rub the butter into the self-raising flour, add the eggs and the ammonia water, and essence of lemon, and work up into a stiffish paste, roll out, cut into rounds and ovals, pinch the edges. Lift on to tins, decorate with candied peel and with plain caraway comfits, egg shaped, and as large as a haricot bean. Sally Lunns. Ingredients: German Yeast, 2 ozs. Flour, 2 lbs. Eggs, 3. Tepid Water, J Pint. Sugar, 1 oz. Ammonia Water, 1 Tablespoonful. Butter, 2 ozs. Set the yeast by melting the sugar in the tepid water andHOTEL AND RESTAURANT COOKERY. 393 dropping in the yeast. When it rises to a head, have the flour warmed in a basin, make a well, set the sponge, let it rise. Oil the butter and stir into the sponge, then work up into a light dough and set it to rise. Cut into rings about 6 inches in diameter and U deep, put them on tins, prove and bake in a quick oven. Brush over with milk when nearly done to glaze, or white of an egg if you prefer it. Gaufres. Ingredients: Flour, Pearl Sugar, Butter, Egg Powder, Baking ditto. Tepid Water, 1 lb. 1 Tablespoonful. i lb. 1 Teaspoonful. 1 do. As required. Sift the powders and the flour carefully together, also the sugar. Make a well in the centre, oil J lb. of butter, put into it half a teacupful of tepid water, and commence to mix the flour gradually into a light batter. Heat the gauflering irons, rub them over with fat, oil, or butter, two thirds fill them and close it. Cook over a charcoal fire, with a knife free any pieces of the cake that has run over the edges. They should be a pale straw colour when cooked, and dusted with fine white sifted sugar before serving. Dough Nuts. Ingredients:— Flour, Butter, Pearl Sugar, Baking Powder, Egg do. Essence of Lemon, Water, 1 lb. ilb. 3 oz. 1 Teaspoonful. 1 do. 2 Drops. As required.394 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. 1 lb. Potatoes, Beat the sugar into the butter, add the egg, and the essence of lemon. Sift the powder into the flour, and then add it to the other ingredients, until a light dough is formed, using water as required. Fry in boiling fat, dust with sugar, cool and pack. Peel and slice the potatoes, boil in 1 quart of water till they are quite reduced to a kind of potatoe soup. Dissolve the yeast and sugar in water, and leave it to work an hour. When the potatoes are very cool, or nearly cold, mix the yeast with them; make a well in the centre of the flour, pour this in, add flour till it is a good batter, throw a clean cloth over, and leave it to rise. Some people add salt to the sponge or yeast mixture, others when they are going to knead it up. Work it up into a good light dough, do not be afraid of working in the water. A stiff dry dough is bad. Leave it to rise; let it rise well to the top of the pan, then work again, form into loaves, put it into warm pans, prove and bake. Home Made Bread. Ingredients:— Flour, Sugar, German Yeast, Salt and Water, 1 Tablespoonful. 2 ozs. As required. 7 lbs.HOTEL AND RESTAURANT COOKERY. 395 CHAPTER XII. SALADS, SAUCES, PICKLES, 6cc. ONE of the most successful accessories to a Luncheon, Dinner, or Supper, is a well made salad. It is cool, grateful, and palatable. The Derby Day Salad. Pass through a mincer, cold chicken, veal, tongue, and season with pepper, salt, a taste of cayenne, and a little lemon rind grated. Mix this with butter, and the juice of a lemon, till it is a sort of paste. Have ready the salad mixture. Take legs of chicken, pieces of the breast, pigeons, veal, sweet-breads, and cover them with aspic jelly, or white sauce, set with dissolved gelatine. Shred the salad fine, as in the old days of the empire in France. It is all the fashion now, to use either finely shred salad, or very coarse, that a knife has never touched, only torn down the centre lengthwise. The component parts of ** T/ie Derby Day^^ are; Fine White Cos Lettuce Hearts^ (the out- side leaves can be dressed as Spinach.) Blanched Dandelion^ Grape Leaves, and Tendrils, Ripe Tomatoes, Parsley, Water- cress. Endive, &c. Pile up the dish high with the shreds of lettuce, and other salad mixture. Shape the forcemeat in egg cups, cut in half and lay in alternate pieces, with quarters of hard boiled eggs. Lay the pieces of fowl round, decorate with endive, and little piles of red and yellow aspics. Have a nicely braised pigeon for the centre, and rest it on a nest of feathery sprays " of endive. A row of mace- doine round the bottom of the dish, and sprinkled here and396 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. there through the salad, is put to relieve the monotony of colour. The dish should be rubbed with a clove of garlic, before dressing, and the juice of lemon squeezed over it. The sauce or vinegar dressing must not be added till the salad is about to be sent to the table, as the vinegar would act on the fibre of the vegetables, and make them limp and uninvit- ing. Salad a la Milord Salisbury. Ingredients:—Cucumber, lobster, hop vine tops and tendrils, truffles, wood sorrel, capers, tomatoes, celeraic garlic, blanched dandelions, potatoes, mustard, cress, lemons, salad, &:c. Cook, peel, and slice the potatoes and celeraic. Cut inch lengths of cucumber, notch it roundly, taking out pieces of the rind at regular intervals, and of equal quantities, pre- pare a lemon in the same way, cut both into thin rings, and cut the lemon rings again in two. Cut also rings of tomato, truffles, &c. Take 2 lobsters, or 1 hen lobster and a tin of lobster. Mince the meat from the tin, sprinkle it with tarragon vinegar and spiced vinegar. Rub the dish with garlic, squeeze a lemon over. Place a layer of tomatoes to completely cover the bottom of the dish, then potatoes, and celeraic, laying them each a row narrower, so that the three rows are seen round. Next spread a layer of lobster, and season it with pepper and salt. Lay a few rings of truffles on it, strew also a few capers over. Take the head off the lobster, divide the shell down the back, pass the coral through a sieve on to a clean plate, lay the 2 shells at either end of the dish, and the meat un- broken from the 2 halves at each side—the red side up, i, e. the portion that was next the shell. Have all the leaf portion of the salad quite clean and dry^ the leastHOTEL AND RESTAURANT COOKERY. 397 quantity of grit would ruin the composition. Put shreds of white salad, dandelion leaves, a few sorrel leaves, (the trefoil wood sorrel is used for this, sheep sorrel is more fitted for'sauces.) Save most of the sorrel, and the mustard and cress, for the crown or top, lay in tomato, &c., here and there amongst the leaves, and some more of the smaller half of the minced lobsters. Place the lobster head in the centre, dress it round with cress and light salad mixture, strewing capers and truffles here and there amongst it. Now garnish the bottom of the dish with the various coloured pieces of notched cucumber, lemon, tomato, truffles, &c., so arranging that they may look effective. Dust the coral over with the whole, from the point of a broad bladed knife. Strew capers over, and put little bunches of wood sorrel here and there near the red portions of the garnish. Pour a rich mayonnaise sauce over and serve. Beaconsfield Salad. Ingredients:—Endive, lettuce, water cress, mustard, garden cress, lemon, beetroot, carrot, and Spanish onion, primrose petals when in season, hard boiled eggs, cold game, lemon- juice. Rub the inside of the salad dish with a raw Spanish onion. Mince the beetroot, carrot, and the whites of the hard boiled eggs. Throw in the bottom of the dish one tablespoonful of lemon juice. Mince some water cress, pound it in a mortar, and mix with an equal quantity of butter. Mix a tablespoonful of the red portion of the carrot with 2 ozs. of butter. Roll into little balls with butter pats. Put a ring of an inch deep of the beet root, on the top, and a slight row of the minced carrot. Lay slices of cold game in the bottom of the dish, fill up with the vege- tables, shreded lettuce, water cress, &c.; keeping rows or rings39§ THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. of distinct colouring of the salad mixtures round the edge of the circle. For instance dark endive leaves on the first row, mustard on the next; water cresses next; lighter leaves of endive garden cress, and so on, till the top is reached. When the salad trophy is half raised, put in another supply of cold game on the centre, pour a good tartare sauce over it, throw the chopped white of egg here and there in layers alternating with the various vegetables that are minced, the carrot and beetroot &c. Place the little balls of butter round the outer edge. Garnish the top with a tuft or crown of endive, put a ring of bright red beetroot round just under it, and carrot below. Strew chopped primroses, or decorate with primroses, and if chopped and mixed with the salad mixture, they impart a most delicate aroma to the dish. Just before serving pour a rich mayonnaise round. Parisian Salad. Ingredients:—Minced roast or boiled chicken, lean boiled ham, or tongue, 7 hard boiled eggs—blanched endive, dandelion, syringa leaves, water cress, lemon juice. Place a dessertspoonful of minced chicken, nicely seasoned and mixed with chopped button mushrooms, in a slice of lean ham, roll it up and trim the edges. Prepare 14 rolls this way. Divide the eggs in halves, lengthwise, fry seven of the halves a delicate brown, keeping yolks towards the pan, spread a layer of the salad mixture on the bottom of the dish, on which a tablespoonful of lemon juice had been poured; pile up the salad mixture, make a trophy of the rolls of ham, which, by the way, are better fastened with a strong solution of gelatine, to keep them in place, top these with sprays of cress, and place the hard-boiled eggs between, alternating them, the plain yolks and fried in turn outside. Pour a good tartare sauce over just as you serid it to table.HOTEL AND RESTAURANT COOKERY. Tomato Salad. Ingredients: Tomatoes, Spanish onion, oil, vinegar, tarra- gon, and spiced vinegar, cayenne, yolk of raw eggs, water- cress. Slice the tomatoes into fair rings, and the Spanish onion in fine delicate rings, place them in alternate rows. Mix into the yolk of eggs a tablespoonful of oil. Put a teaspoonful of vinegar, 2 drops of tarragon vinegar, and a dash of spiced vinegar, season with salt, a dust of cayenne and pepper. Garnish with water cress. Serve. The St. Petersburg Salad. Take all kinds of root vegetables cooked, cut them into dice or long fancy patterns, sprinkle in the bottom of the bowl a thick layer of grated Hamburg beef, next lay on the vegetables, keeping the brightest colour and prettiest pat- terns for the top, then place an even layer of pickled mush- rooms* and sliced olives. Arrange another deepish layer of grated beef, over this pour a good quantity of salad dressing (see page 446) so as not to touch the outer edge, then group the last of the vegetables with artistic merit. Arrange in pat- terns with red and yellow aspics dispersed in heaps amongst the pyramid of vegetables, also small balls of Russian caviare. The usual dressing is yolks of eggs, olive oil, sugar, sour white wine, a dash of Russian spirit, salt, vinegar, cayenne, and other peppers. * For a Russian preparation both raw and pickled mushrooms are used. Many of them, Frenchmen would consider poisonous from their bright colours.400 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. Juden Stradt Salad. Ingredients: Sliced pickled eggs, pickled cucumbers, and fresh beetroot, lay on each ring of beetroot, half of a pickled egg cut into rings, and on the top, rings from a large pickled cucumber, dash over this a little tarragon vinegar, or other herb vinegar, and serve with a good Mayonnaise dressing over the whole. Jewish Pickle. (Pickled Eggs.) Take 20 hard boiled eggs, they should be fresh pullets eggs boiled for half an hour, well covered with water. When lifting the net out of the hot water, plunge it at once into a bucket of cold, peel the eggs, put them into a pickle jar, put to them the following pickle: good brown vinegar 3 pints, bruised white ginger, cloves, corianders, cardamums, and mace, of each \ oz., long peppers and allspice, and round black peppers, J- oz. of each, 6 chillies to each dozen of eggs. Boil the vinegar and spices with 1 oz. of sugar, but not in an iron or tinned vessel, or the strength will be lost and the pickle spoilt. Iron or tinned pans or glazed earthenware jars act chemically on the vinegar, or rather it acts on them in the first instance, deteriorating the strength, and in the second rendering the vinegar poisonous. Glass or unglazed jars are proper for pickles. The eggs will be the colour of walnuts, and not unlike pickled walnuts either. Samphire Pickle. Samphire grows on the rocks by the shore, and is one of the most exquisite though not much known, pickles we have. Procure some fine green sprays of samphire, wash it well, let it steep in brine for 12 hours, then take it out, drain it and put it into a brass preserving pan with a tablespoonful of salt, into which is mixed 2 drams (l-8th of an ounce) ofHOTEL AND RESTAURANT COOKERY. 4OI powdered alum, over a low fire. Let it get right hot and crisp, then lift out the samphire, place it in jars, pour over it white wine vinegar, 1 oz. each of cloves, long peppers, all- spice and ginger, to each 3 pints of vinegar. The vinegar must cover the samphire. In three days look at it, and fill up with vinegar, repeat this at the end of the week. In a month it will be fit for use. To Choose Lemons. The large coarse fruit one sees in the markets are of the lemon tribe, but not pure lemons, they are what the shad- docks is to the orange. The large so-called " lemons " have thicker rinds, there is a bitter principle in the white pith, that renders them undesirable for many dishes. Besides bulk for bulk the large lemon" has less aromatic principle or essen- tial oil than its smaller relative, and the juice is neither so acid nor so plentiful as in the true lemon, but rather tends to pungency. The rind of the lemon should be fine grained, it should feel Jirm without feeling hard, withered or dried up. I am particular on this point, because I have suffered through bad goods. Again in the East end of London, Bethnal Green, for instance, old wizened lemons, limes, and oranges, are revived by placing in a tank, pot, or pan, or worse still, the copper, where they boil clothes at small laundries. The vessel is filled with cold water, a fire is lighted under, the goods just come to the boil, then the fire dies out, the revived goods are taken out, wiped dry, and sold as fast as convenient, or they mould soon. The appearance is pale yellow with darker spots, like gelatine semi-opaque, or the small pin points seen on the shell of a bad egg is a better description. The oil is nearly gone and the fruit of little or no use. z402 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. Lemon Pickle. Take say 2 dozen of the fruit, wipe them carefully and examine to see that they are sound, rub them with salt and lay them in a basin and cover them with salt, turn them several times for three or four days, lift the lemons out of the brine and place them on a sieve to dry in the sun for two days, put them into jars after wiping, and as you pack them in, strew the following spices, equally divided, amongst the lemons, viz., bruised white ginger, 2 ozs., white peppers, 2 ozs., chillies, J oz., coriander, J oz., small mustard seeds, J oz., cover with strong white wine vinegar, look at them at the end of each week, for a fortnight or three weeks, and add vinegar for that absorbed by the fruit, and keep closely covered down, ready for use in six weeks, but perfec- tion at the end of six months. To serve with game, cut in half and then"quarter each half. Put a tablespoonful of the liquor in the glass dish. Never return cut lemons to the jar in which the whole fruit is pickled, as it would cloud the white wine vinegar. Orange Pickle. Prepare them exactly as you would the lemons, take 6 St. Michaels and 6 Seville. They must be pickled in separ- ate jars as the colouring from the darker orange would spoil the effect of the bright yellow of the St. Michaels. To serve at table, halve the oranges, and cut each half in four, small oranges with fine skins (like the lemons) are the best for pickling purposes. When lemon and orange pickles are served on the one dish the shading of the colours is very attractive. The juice from the St. Michaels or vinegar from the lemons should be used, as that of the Seville oranges will be found dark and perhaps a trifle clouded. Put no cut fruit into the principal jars. In salads these are most exquisite and recherche.HOTEL AND RESTAURANT COOKERY. 4O3 Green Nectarine Pickle. Green apples, plums, apricots, nectarines, grapes, &c., all come under this head. The blight often seizes on the green fruit and it is simply wasted, when it would make a most delicious pickle, or mock olives in some cases. The latter do very well for salads and farcee for stews, ragouts, &c., where the olive is mixed with other foods. To Pickle. Lay the fruit after it is carefully wiped, in a strong pickle, thus,—put a thin layer of salt on a dish, put a layer of green nectarines (or other green windfalls or thin- ings) and then salt, and so on till the fruit is all laid in, cover with salt, let it remain 4 days, lift out the fruit, drain, dry in the sun and turn frequently for two or three days, then put in jars. Boil sufficient white wine vinegar in a brass pan to cover the fruit,—iron saucepans will not do,—put into the vinegar for each quart, ^ oz. of white sugar, 1 oz. of white ginger, 1 oz. of long peppers, 1 oz. of allspice, 1 oz. of cloves, 6 chillies, 1 shalot. When the vinegar boils, let it continue for 10 minutes to gently simmer, then let it become cold; add l-8th of an ounce (2 drams) of alum to crisp the fruit, dissolve it in the hot vinegar, and when quite cold pour over the fruit. Mock Olives. Take green plums, with a sharp penknife loosen and work out all the stones from the stalk ends. Lay vine leaves, or tansey, in the bottom of a jar, strew fennel seed in amongst the fruit, and plenty of salt, a little powdered alum, and cover with oil, poured on the fruit hot. If you want olives farcee, put a piece of anchovy and sardine alternately in the aperture left by the stone being ex- tracted. Put into the jars just as above after stuffing.404 THE NEW GtriDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. Mock Capers. Green peas or nasturtium seeds. Lay the fruit in the sun for an hour after picking. Then put it into a pickle of salt strewn over. Let them lie 3 days, drain on a sieve, and half dry in the sun. Put them into a jar, pour boiling white wine vinegar over, and add a lump of alum as large as a bean. When cold tie down. Use as capers in sauces, &c. Indian Pickle. Ingredients:— Green Apples. Celery Stalks in three inch lengths. Green Plums, (or Apricots.) Cauliflower in branches. Red Carrot sliced and notched. Small Cucumbers, (or Gherkins.) Spanish Onions. Tomatoes. 2 inch lengths of Onion Stalks. Capisums, (Green and Red,) Chillies. Cherries, Red and White. Radish Pods, Peas, Small quantity of Horse Raddish. Eggs, Oil. Put all the fruits and vegetables which must be sound, and well cleaned, on a dish, spread out, except the Spanish onion and tomato. Cover them with salt, let them lie 24 hours, turn them, drain off the water, and add another sprinkle of salt. Let them lie another 6 hours, drain, and dry in the sun thoroughly. Now pack them loosely in jars, and prepare the following pickle. To brown vinegar 2 quarts, take J lb. of pickling spices, and 1 oz. of bruisedHOTEL AND RESTAURANT COOKERY. 405 ginger, J oz. of mustard seeds, and J oz. of turmeric, boil these together, add 1 lb. of tomatoes, and 1 lb. of Spanish onion peeled. When they are tender, lift them out with a ladle, so as not to break them, and make a puree by passing them through a tammy sieve. Return this to the vinegar and spices, and boil for another 10 minutes. To each quart, take the yolks of 3 eggs, and \ pint of oil. Work the oil into the eggs, and when it is cold, add to the vinegar pickle. Fill the jars with this, and if more vinegar is re- quired at the end of the week, add boiled vinegar, with whole peppers, and a little salt in it, and thickened with turmeric, and cork closely and seal. Pickled Barberries. Take these in sprays or bunches, let them lie in salt for 6 hours, drain and dry. If you can get the sprays red, yellow and green, do so, they have a good effect in salad, and entree decoration, as well as grouping with other pickles,—the green will have to be carefully dressed by themselves. Put them into white wine vinegar, and use white spices, as for lemon pickle. Pickled cherries and mountain ash, are also good adjuncts for cold game, and salad work. Chilli Vinegar. Put 1 quart of white wine vinegar into a jar with 1 oz. of chillies. Steep for a week, and it will be ready for use in 3 months, it will be perfection. Stir the jar now and then, keep it carefully sealed, and as small quantities are with- drawn, fill up with fresh vinegar. Capsicum Vinegar is made in the same way, using the large pods. These can be utilized after in pickling onions, and mixed pickles dressed in clear vinegafs, '406 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. Tarragon Vinegar. Half fill a glass pickle jar with tarragon leaves. Country people can always get them from Covent garden, by send- ing up a few pence to one of the many green-grocers there. The leaves are in best perfection for vinegar making, from June to July, and should be gathered during a spell of fine weather, and also, they should be perfectly dry. Pour on them sufficient white wine vinegar to fill the jar. Cork it tight, and in about 3 weeks it will be flavoured for use; the longer it steeps (in moderation J the better the flavour will be extracted. Garlic Vinegar. Take the outer skins from a garlic root. Separate the cloves, cut each in two, and place in the bottles in the pro- portion of 1 oz. to the quart. Cork tightly and seal. Steep for about 3 weeks, strain ofl* and bottle, add another quart and let it steep 3 months. Shalot Vinegar is made as above, J lb. of peeled shalots to the quart of vinegar. Use white wine. Mint Vinegar, as tarragon. See above. Basil Vinegary as tarragon. Syringa Vinegar, as tarragon, used to impart a flavour of cucumber to salads. Burnet Vinegar, as tarragon, see above, and used for the same purposes as syringa leaves. These two vinegars impart such an exact cucumber flavour that they are invaluable to the cook. I find steeping them in spirit gives a fine essence of cucumber for some sweet dishes and cups.HOTEL AND RESTAURANT COOKERY. 407 Salad Vinegar. To a gallon of white wine vinegar, put the following ingredients:— Bruised Cloves, 2 ozs. Tarragon Leaves, 1 Gill, (i pint.) Measureful. Shalots Peeled and Minced, 2 ozs. Mint and Basil, 2 ozs. each. Knotted Marjoram, 1 oz. Lemon Thyme, 1 oz. do. Rind, 1 oz. Mustard Seeds, 1 oz. Balm and Syringa, 1 oz. each. Liquid Rennet, 1 Quart, Strong Solution. Sprinkle the salads with this well in the mixing, so that it does not touch the outside vegetables, to make them flabby if the salad has to stand before serving. It is over the meats it should principally go, and shows both a savoir- faire on the part of the cook, whilst it renders the salad both palatable and digestable, by the judicious mixture of flavours, and the introduction of pepsin in the form of calf's rennet, which the medical faculty consider necessary to their many patients suffering from tea or any other dyspepsias. Cayenne Pepper. Put the chillies, say 2 ozs. with 2 ozs. of dried capsicums, into a coffee mill, grind them and bottle for use. If you have a spice mill, so much the better, it is wiser to grind red and black peppers at home, fresh as wanted. There is a large amount of adulteration in peppers, for which the grocers and Italian warehouse men are not responsible.408 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. KETCHUPS. I SELDOM buy mushroom ketchup. But can recommend Tyrer's Borough Ketchup; it is good, sound and cheap, but specialities such as ;— Mussel Ketchup I PREFER of home manufacture. My first care in the case of shell fish required for ketchups is to buy them alive, and have them all picked out and cleaned by putting in a tub of water, and letting one of the boys agitate them in the water with a broom, not too roughly however. They are then placed in a tub with clean water, and fed once every 24 hours with fresh water and oatmeal, this goes on for a week, and the mussels, cockles, oysters, and other shell fish are much improved, better coloured, plumper, and finer flavour- ed, than if used direct from the Grimsby and Whitstable suppliers. To Make : Open the mussels carefully, save the liquor, say you have a pint, put them into a mortar with ground mace \ oz., cayenne pepper J oz., cloves \ oz., 3 Bordeau anchovies, and a dessertspoonful of salt. Pound them all well, and mix them thoroughly. Put them into a stewpan, with 2 glasses of cognac, and 1 pint of chablis, sauterne, or other white wine. Let it come to the boil, then pass through a fine wdre tammy sieve, bottle, cork and seal. Use as a relish to boiled or fried fish. Oyster Ketchup, as above. Coclde Ketcliitp, as Mussel. Anchovy Ketchups as above, but only 12 anchovies to the pint of white fish wine. Mushroom Powder. Take champignons or fairy ring mushrooms, wipe theHOTEL AND RESTAURANT COOKERY. zJOQ tops and stems, tie them together by the stalks and place them in thin paper bags perforated with holes, hang them by the side of the stove or on a warm wall in the kitchen, and let them d^y gradually. I am quite aware it is the custom to dry them in cool ovens and on hot plates, but they lose half their fragrance and flavour by the semi-baking system. When dry, powder in a mortar, sift through coarse muslin or Victoria lawn. Parsley Powder, Scald the parsley by dipping it in boiling water with a piece of soda dissolved in it, wring it dry and hang it up for a couple of hours to dry, then finish as for mushrooms, or it can be left in leaves coarsely rubbed off the stalks for use in sauces, when parsley is scarce or not obtainable the moment it is required. For the finer forcemeats and stuffings it is best thus prepared, the colour is finer and the flavour better. In sauces in this form it is stirred in just as you lift the sauce ofi" the fire in order to preserve its colour. Melted-Butter. No. i. Says a great writer on food and a gourmet, is the only sauce known to Englishmen, English cooks, and English tables. But that is false, I have found many with a soul above melted-butter alone, and melted-butter is no bad thing, if well made. Melt 2 ozs. of cooking butter in a saucepan, stir in by degrees to the oiled butter 2 tablespoonfuls of plain flour, mix the roux but do not let it burn, then add milk till it is the consistency of good thick cream, stir it well and let it have a good boil to cook the flour. Melted-Butter. No. 2. Put f of a pint of milk over the fire in a saucepan. Moisten a heaped dessertspoonful of corn- flour with J of a4IO THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. pint of cold milk, season it with salt, stir this into the pan as the milk rises, boil for a few minutes, lift it off the fire and beat in the butter. It is then ready to serve. A spoonful of cream softens and improves it, and in farm houses and mansions where cream is plentiful, the sauce is made half of milk and half of cream. Sorrel Sauce. Sorrel 4 pints washed, picked, and the yellow and bad leaves removed. Put it into a saucepan with either water or stock, stew till tender, and season with pepper and salt, pass through a wire sieve, add the liquor to the puree, and a dessertspoonful of white wine vinegar or lime juice. It should be quite a thick sauce, about the consistency of thick melted-butter. Uses: Served with boiled mutton, fresh or salt beef, boiled fowl, i&c. Gooseberry Sauce, or Mock Apple. Boil green unripe gooseberries, say 1 lb., make them into a puree, add a " poney (l-6t1i of a pint) of sweet apple cider, and warm the puree again, lift it off the fire, and stir in J a glassful of spinach or tansy juice, or vegetable colouring, to improve the appearance. Uses : Serve with duck, roast pork, goose, or roast breast of mutton stuffed as pork, mackerel, &c. Sauce a la Roi. (Danish Sauce.) Make a melted-butter as in No. 2. (page 409) using Fecule de pomnie de terre, instead of corn flour, and half cream and half fish stock, without salt, for the liquid instead of milk, beat in 2 ozs. of butter to the pint and a half, colour pinkHOTEL AND RESTAURANT COOKERY. 41I with cochineal, stir in 2 tablespoonfuls of cranberries, (or pickled barberries) half a teaspoonful of salad vinegar, (see page 407) serve with sturgeon steaks or any fish cutlets, and it will be found simply delicious, coloured red ; yellow with yolks of eggs, stirred in whilst the potatoe flour is cooking, or green with parsley or spinach juice. This sauce will make a nice variety to dress salmon, canned lobsters, cold cod steaks &c. for luncheon or picnic parties. Soldier's Sauce. (Creme des Soldats.) Prepare a cream sauce, thicken with pounded Jordan almonds, 1 oz. blanched to every J pint, also 1 small glass of sherry, just before serving. Sauce de Maquereau a la Temple. (Temple Mackerel Sauce.) The melt of the fish boiled and beaten in a mortar with J oz. of butter, 1 anchovy, 1 yolk of hard-boiled egg, a dessert- spoonful of finely chopped fennel, the same quantity of minced parsley and capers, a tablespoonful of mussel ket- chup. Make into sauce with fish or veal stock, or the strained liquor in which a mackerel has been baked. If too thick, add a glass of chablis or other white wine, and serve in a separate tureen. Lemon Sauce. Take i lb. of sheep or lamb liver, parboil and grate it, grate the rind off a lemon, when you have grated half the quantity of liver, squeeze the juice over the liver, and stir the whole into a brown sauce, and serve with fowl, boiled or roasted. The poultry livers can then be utilized for giblet pie, or dressing the wings,412 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. Brown Sauce. (Thick Sauce.) Take 2 ozs. of baked flour, it must be quite a fawn colour, melt in a saucepan IJ ozs. of cooking butter. When it is oiled, stir in the flour and work up quite smoothly, moisten by degrees with good stock and gravy, let it boil, then take off" any fat that may rise, and use for the foundation of brown gravy sauces. Season with spices if the stock is not already seasoned. Veloute Sauce. Take a rich white stock prepared from slices of ham, knuckle of veal, fowls, &c., and flavoured with carrots, onions, pique with cloves, bouquet of parsley and cihoules, &c. It must be carefully skimmed and attended to whilst cooking. Steep champigno7is in lemon juice. Make a white roux. Mix the stock with it. It should be of medium thickness. Then add the champignons, let it be on one corner of the stove to simmer slowly or digest," skim it well. From 1J to 2 hours is the proper time. Pass the liquid through a tammy. It should be white and smooth. If ordinary white flour is used, High dry it first, and be particular that the colour is kept white, pure and smooth. Sauce au Supreme. Put in a saucepan 2 or 3 tablespoonfuls of veloute, and a tablespoonful of chicken broth. Reduce it a little. Before serving, throw in a piece of butter, about 1 oz., and beat it well in, then add the juice of a lemon. Pass it through a fine pointed strainer, and work it well. Put it into the boat, stand it in boiling water over the fire till it is thoroughly hot, and-serve. Uses: Excellent for white meat patties r^.nd dressings. " - -Hotel and restaurant cookery. 413 Bechamel. Rich white stock 2J pints, lean ham 4 ozs., cut into dice, herbs, bay leaves, whole peppers, a piece of nutmeg as large as a small haricot bean, carrots sliced and an onion. Fry the vegetables in butter, but do not let them colour. Then put your good consomme, (white stock) and the ham also, slightly fried, in the butter. Put it on the fire, add 6 spoon- fuls of veloute that is of a good colour, commence stirring, and continue to do so till it is reduced to one half. Nqw add one pint of double cream, continue stirring, so that it does not burn, till it comes to the boil. It must not be left for an instant. Stand so that it simmers, when it is enough, pass through a tammy and a fine pointed strainer, rechauffe and serve. It requires stirring for f of an hour over a brisk fire. Uses : As a general white sauce, and for the interior of patties, &c. Mussel Sauce. Scald the fish and stir into the above sauce. Sauce Poivrade Piquante. Put into a saucepan 1 tablespoonful of minced parsley, 4 shalots minced, lemon thyme and a bay leaf, 1 teaspoonful of white pepper corns, 12 chillis. Throw over this a large wine glass of vinegar=to 2 fluid ozs., and 1 oz. of butter. Cover down and let it "sweat" for half an hour by the side of the fire where it will get warm but not boil. Then stir in 1 pint of white stock, put the pan over the fire and reduce the contents to a demi-glaze. Then stir in by degrees a good brown stock, till the sauce is of a proper consistence, strain and serve. N. B. For people of moderate tastes, the chillis may be omitted, bnt they are necessary when the sauce is to be the foundation of a ** devil." For Piquante add 1 tablespoonful of white vinegar or verjuice.414 ^HE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. Mushroom Sauce. Peel and mince button or flap mushrooms, the latter are more pronounced in flavour, dust them over with cayenne, and black pepper, take a pint of brown sauce, and stir in 2 tablespoonfuls of minced mushrooms, and a few drops of lemon juice, stir over the fire till it boils. Serve with roast fowl, rabbit, mutton, or beef olives, &c. Horse-radish Sauce. No. 1. Three shalots peeled and sliced, 6 each of cloves, whole peppers, allspice, long peppers, and cayenne or red pepper pods, ground; 2 ozs. of sliced and scraped horse-radish roots. Steep in IJ pints of vinegar, closely corked in the bottle. After it has steeped a fortnight, draw it off", add a teaspoonful of salt and 1 of coarse sugar to the ground spices, leaving only the horse-radish out. Bottle, cork, and seal. Used for flavouring beef hashes, stews, ragouts, &c., very useful. Horse-radish Sauce. No. 2. Wash and scrape 2 fine roots, grate them quite fine, put them into white wine vinegar, and bottle up tightly in a wide-mouthed pickle jar. Used plain with cold beef or in making sauce. The Malpas Horse-radish Sauce. No. 3. (Flying Horse Hotel, Notts.) Grate 2 tablespoonfuls of horse-radish very finely, mix it with 4 tablespoonfuls of scalded cream, also a teaspoonful of arrowroot, moistened with milk, and just stirred into the cream as it comes to the boiling point, add 1 teaspoonful of sifted sugar, a liqueur-glass of the best white wine vinegar, another of chablis or cognac, and serve.HOTEL AND RESTAURANT COOKERY. 415 Endive Sauce. Cook the endive so as to preserve the colour, with a spoonful of sugar, some salt and a piece of soda or carbonate of soda, put into boiling water after it is washed and cleaned, containing the above condiments. Boil rapidly with the lid off, strain when tender, express the juice, and mince it very finely, add to it enough brown sauce to make it into a thick- ish sauce, serve with veal, roast chicken, rabbit, &c. White Mushroom Sauce. Cook button mushrooms in stock. When they are cooked they can be lifted out, and placed in good white sauce flavoured with lemon rind, grated, or canned mushrooms may be used and will only require warming in the sauce for a few moments. Curry Sauce. Ingredients Cloves, Long Peppers, Allspice, As required. Spanish Onion, 1 oz. in Rings. Carrot, 1 oz. Apple, 1 small. Butter, 1 oz. Tamarinds, 2 ozs. Jordan Almonds, or Cocoanut, Fresh, 1 oz. Good Brown Stock, 2 Pints. Baked Flour, 2 ozs. Lemond Rind, 1 square inch. 1 Bayleaf and Parsley, Thyme, &c. Curry, 2 Tablespoonfuls. Lemon Juice, 1 ,, Put all the vegetables nicely cleaned and shred, into the4l6 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. butter to fry, and when brown stir in the baked flour and tamarinds amongst them, add the stock by degrees, and let the whole simmer slowly until the carrots are tender. Blanch and pound the almonds in a mortar, or grate the cocoanut, adding the lemon juice to it. The lemon rind and the herbs go into the stock with the spices. When the carrots are tender, pass them all through a tammy sieve, with the stock. Add the almonds, or cocoanut, and the curry powder. Put it over the fire, stir till it thickens, give it a boil up, and let it simmer another \ of an hour. This can be served separately in a sauce boat in case there are guests present who do not care for it. It should not be too thick, nor yet sloppy, about the consistency of good double cream, can be served with cutlets of meat, fowl, fish, &c. It also makes a good sauce in which to serve hard boiled eggs, canned lobster, salmon, or cold vegetables for breakfast or supper dishes. Toasted cheese with this sauce poured over is liked by lovers of bonnes touches of the hot order. The subject of gravy strengtheners, and dried sauces is one of importance. I cannot do better than quote Francois Andre's article in the British and Foreign Confectioner, early in the year 1884. Here we are in the midst of a grand food discussion amongst the medical men of Paris, which is echoed by the German doctors in council. It is whether the fibrine of meat is nourishing or not. They have discovered that beef- teas and soups are only strength givers ! Most wonderful! ! Every gourinet in Paris knows that Brillat Savarin has written, dictated and expounded the theory. Your own medical men discussed the very subject three years ago in their leading medical journals; our papers took up the subject, and supplemented the true theory with warmth. Every young apprentice in a kitchen, and of course everyHOTEL AND RESTAURANT COOKERY. 417 trained cook; knows that, the liquid extract of meat, is a tonic stimulant. Else why do we give strong consomme before a heavy dinner ? or to the sick beef-tea ? Has not Liebig written most plainly on the subject, given analysis, and had meat lozenges and biscuits, wherein the strong glaze, or gelatinous extract of bone and sinew is conveyed ? They are the fibrine of fresh meat dried, not roast or baked, but dried as we would dry flour, bread or rusks for crushing and ground to powder as fine as it is possible to do so. This is the nourisher, the liquid was only the strengthener. In the magazines of the same year, the American scientific papers took up the theme of beef-tea and its properties. Calmly telling us as if it were quite a novel fact just eluci- dated, that " Persons who partake freely of beef-tea on an empty stomach are frequently surprised at finding themselves affected as if they had taken a strong cup of coffee. This however is perfectly natural, for, says Professor Roberts Bartholow, of the Jefferson Medical College, nothing has been more conclusively shown than that beef-tea is not a food. It is nothing more than a stimulant. The chemical composition of beef-tea closely resembles that of urine, and it is more an excrementitious substance than a food. In preparing beef-juice the lean part of the beef should be selected. This should be cut into thick pieces about the size for a lemon-squeezer. The pieces should be next placed upon a hot coal-fire for a moment to scorch the exterior; the meat is then transferred to the lemon-squeezer, which has been warmed by dipping in hot water, and the juice pressed out and allowed to flow into a glass, which has also been heated. The juice is seasoned with a little salt and cayenne pepper, if the patient desires it, and taken immediately. In this way the nutritious elements of the meat are obtained, and the slight scorching develops consti- tuents which give the peculiar flavour to cooked meat. This AA418 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. is for a diet, the principle of which is the administration of those elements which are disposed of in the stomach, and do not require the aid of the intestines in their digestion/* Dried Meat Fibrine. This meat fibrine is constantly used in our kitchens. The meat is cut into long thin strips, dipped in flour and then gradually dried. Some run wires through them. I prefer to attach them to clips fastened to a wire extending between two supports. These clips are cheap enough, they may be had of steel. The stationers use them for hanging up papers and cards in their windows. In the drying pro- cess the only losses are clear water vapour, and a certain amount of the stimulant spirit of beef, which so largely per- vades fresh beef and blood. When the slices of beef are as dry as it is possible to be, they are ground in fine steel mills, roughly at first, and again through a finer mill. The powder thus obtained is then bolted or sifted through muslin. Thin stock for brown soups is much enriched by a tablespoonful of this being stirred, say into 1^- pints. In a minute it is endued with body and flavour. The feeding or nutritive properties of beef-teas and soups so treated are 100 per cent, over that of the ordinary makes, where fibrine is not present. A beast's melt and liver, spiced, dried and ground, makes a splendid nutritive, and unsurpassed adjunct to high class gravies. It is common enough to have this in bulk, but try it in the more refined form of powder, and it will be a great and marvellously good addition to the kitchen stores.HOTEL AND RESTAURANT COOICERY. 419 Solid Stock and Flavouring. Ingredients:— fa J Lean Beef, li lbs. 1^ lbs. Baked Flour, Salt, 2 ozs. 4 lbs. 4 lbs. /'d J Beasts Liver, do. Melt, Allspice, Mace, Nutmeg, Celery, Salt, Black Pepper, Mace, Cloves, 1 oz. each in powder. Dried and Finely Rubbed Salt, i lb. /"aj Cut the lean beef into thin strips, dip it in the baked flour at once, and fasten on the clips, hang up in a cool ovefi till dry. Grind it with salt, and bottle for use. (h) Cut the liver into strips, dip in the spices, which should be mixed together. Then dip in the flour, hang up in the oven to dry. If the liver drips, dip the slices once or twice more in the flour, &c. It will take longer to dry than the lean beef. Skin the melt and dip in the spices, and also in the flour, and prepare as the lean beef. When the liver is dry grind it also, and add the salt to the bulk. Can it and keep it dry, 1 dessertspoonful to 1 pint of rich or 1 quart of medium stock, makes a vast difference. Each 1 lb. of liver requires to be well rubbed with saltj let it lie for 6 hours. Then rub in curry powder thoroughly, dip in spices mixed as in last receipt. Dry, grind, and mix with J lb. of curry powder, bottle, and use 1 tablespoonful to each quart of soup or gravy. Liver for Curry Sauces.420 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. Maitre Hotel Butter. Butter, Chopped Parsley, Lemon Juice, Salt, Pepper, 2 ozs. 1 Tablespoonful. 1 Tablespoonful. To Taste. Chop the parsley, wring it dry after mincing. Mix up with the butter, lemon juice, salt and pepper, till it is a cream. Then serve on hot chops, steaks, fish steaks, and broils of poultry, vegetables, &c. The heat of the viands melts the butter, and causes it to spread over the surface of the food. A very high French authority recommends the addition of shalots, but I have found very few English men, or women, who care for the addition. Butter a saucepan with 2 ozs., line it with slices of ham, add a knuckle of veal or half a cow's heel. The carcase of a boned chicken or fowl, greatly improves the sauce. Scrape clean and slice 4 carrots, an onion piqueed with cloves, a large bouquet garni of sweet herbs and a bay leaf. Cover well with white stock, put it over a moderate fire, skim off the fat and reduce; when it is one half re- duced, strain off the consomme. Let it get cold, and skim again every particle of fat. Prepare a roux hlanc of butter and corn flour or baked white flour, moisten with the stock, add 2 tablespoonfuls of cream. The sauce should be thick, and the consistence of cream. Let it stand 1 to 2 hours on the hot plate, skim the butter off as it rises to the surface, and let it be as white as possible. Another Sauce Veloute. Veloute Travaille. Take the above sauce 1 part, cream, 1 part, heat together,HOTEL AND RESTAURANT COOKERY. 421 and pass through a very fine strainer, keep the sauce as white as possible, stirring the whole time it is over the fire. Potted Meats. These are very useful in the domestic economy of a large hotel or mansion. There is always something ready cooked for the bar luncheons, or for sudden calls for meat, poultry, or game salads. They are also economic methods of using up odds and ends of meat perfectly good in itself, but not enough to send either to the bars or hotel tables again. In clubs it is the careful Chefs ** save all." For instance we will say amongst other things, stewed pigeons are ordered for a dinner for three people. It is to be en fainille, and not a la russe^ so there must be more than three pigeons sent up. Four are cooked, one only is used. The Chef has the other three on his hands. He may be able to dispose of them in the shape of a pie, or if that is already on hand, and there is likely to be no call for it he simply prepares;— Potted Pigeon. Dust spices carefully into the inside, ground cloves, mace, long peppers, and a sensation of cayenne. This is easily done to the cooked birds by placing a small tunstal in the neck. Place the birds in a jar and blow the spices down with a dust bellows, used for blowing the dust off pieces, montee, &c. The birds being, it is supposed, thoroughly cooked, are placed in jars, and covered with trained butter," i. e, butter put into a jar and placed in the oven, and allowed to melt, whereby the impurities fall to the bottom, and the surplus water allowed to evaporate. The bird is allowed to get quite hot and simmer in the butter for J of an hour. It is then taken out of the oven, and422 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. when cool tied down with bladder, it should be well covered with butter. When quite cold if required for long storage, run a layer of melted paraffin wax over. It is pure, white, and tasteless. Potted Game. Partridges, snipes, woodcocks, all small birds may be potted whole. The fashion of cooking first does very well if they are to figure in some dish at table first. But when the game bags are well filled it is wise to make provisions for times when there is no hatteau, and the shots uncertain. Potted Partridge. Dress the birds as for roasting, before trussing, rub them well over inside and out with the following mixture: Ground cloves 1 teaspoonful, mace, white pepper, allspice J teaspoonful, salt 1 dessertspoonful, nutmeg and cayenne a very small quantity. Mix these thoroughly before rubbing into the birds. Lay vine leaves in the bottom of the stew- pan, two or three deep. Lay the birds breast downwards on this, cover them with butter, put on the lid, and let them stew as slowly as possible, or bake in the oven. When cooked they must be lifted out of the butter, and drained. Leave them to get quite cold, "train" down the butter after pouring it off the gravy, leave it to get cold, then take the solid part that is free from gravy, &c., and pour it over the birds. When that is cold, pour a little melted butter over the top. This butter is not wasted for it is used in toast rotis, pastry for game, &c., where the flavour is not an objection. It also makes capital brown roux. Another kind of potting is for the using up of cold meats, fowl, game or fish,HOTEL AND RESTAURANT COOKERY, 423 Potted Beef, Take 1 lb. of the beef either roast or boiled. Pass it through a mincer twice, then put it into a mortar with a heavy pestal. Mix the meat with ground spices, and salt. Plenty of pepper, and a dust of cayenne, the grated rind of a lemon. Pound the meat thoroughly till it will pass through a wire tammy. Then press into the sieve, mix in couple of ounces of butter, oiled. When it has come through, fill the pots, run clarified butter ^ of an inch deep over it. When cold tie down. Ham and Chicken Potted. Season 2 ozs. of butter with ground cloves, mace, nutmeg and white pepper. Oil it in a stewpan, and when the spices are thoroughly mixed with it, put in the chicken flesh you intend to pot, freed from skin and bones. Do not cut, but pluck the cooked flesh ofi^ the bones. Toss it in the butter, and add about a tablespoonful of glaze stock to each half pound of the chicken. When warm, mince it, and then pound it in the mortar. When very fine, press it into the pots. Pour butter over as before, cover tightly and store. Used for breakfast, luncheon, supper and sandwiches. Potted Venison. Cut the meat into thin shaves, lay in a pan with half a pound of seasoned butter, 1 tablespoonful of currant jelly, 1 glass or 2 tablespoonful of red wine to every 1 lb. of meat, and a tablespoonful of mixed spices. Warm the meat and stew in this for a quarter of an hour. Take out the slices, pass through a mincing machine twice, then pound in a mortar or pass through a wire sieve. Mix the gravy, &c., with the puree thoroughly. Press into the pots and run clarified butter oyer.424 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. Italian Potted Birds. Cook the birds either by braising or roasting. Let them get quite cold, and it must be remembered that they are properly dressed and trussed before cooking. Put into a clean saucepan sufficient oil to cover the birds, add salt to it, and spice it with whole spices, nutmeg, cloves, cardamum seeds, long peppers, &c. Let it stew slowly at low tempera- ature for half an hour. Place the birds in the oil and keep at the same heat, from 90° to 100^ F. for an hour. Then put the birds in jars. Boil up the oil, but do not destroy the colour. When it ceases to make a noise lift it off the fire, let it cool down. Pour over the birds and tie down. They keep longer in oil than in butter without growing rank. To Cure Rank Taste in Potted Birds. Put the pot containing the bird in the oven, put a muslin bag containing charcoal in with the bird. Let the butter slowly warm up to boiling point, and then stand 20 minutes at a lower degree of temperature. Lift out the charcoal bag—dish the bird, and serve hot or cold. It will be perfectly sweet. For ragouts, salmi, stews, hashes, pies, &c., of game, charcoal can be employed to render them less highly pro- nounced to the noses or tastes of the household. COMPOTES Are very useful dessert dishes and may be made of almost any kind of fruit.HOTEL AND RESTAURANT COOKERY. 425 Compote of Apples. Ingredients :• White Wine, Pippins, Pearl Sugar, Water, Jelly, Lemon Juice or Rind, Quince Cloves, To cover Apples. As required. 1 Glass. 9. 1 lb. 1. 1. 6. Pare and core the apples and quince. Pare the lemon very thin, and take half the rind and strain the juice. Put the apples into a stewpan with the quince, lemon rind and juice, the other sugar and cloves. Simmer very gently till the apples are clear. Place them on the compotier and let them cool. Reduce the liquor by boiling to a syrup, strain it, and add the wine, and still further reduce it to a glaze. When nearly cold pour this over the fruit. Trim them with jelly when quite cold, filling up the cores with bright red cherry, port wine, or currant jelly. Serve when required with centrifugal sugar, strew over the apples. Peel the oranges and remove all the white pith carefully Compote d' Orange. Ingredients:— Oranges, Lemon, Sugar, Water, Cloves, ilb. To cover fruit. 6. i Teaspoonful. 4. 1. Coriander,426 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. from the outside. Peel J- the lemon, and press and strain the juice. Put the oranges in a pan, cover with water, add the sugar, lemon rind and juice, cloves, and coriander seeds. Stew very slowly and gently until the oranges are cooked, take them out of the liquor, let them get cold. Roll in centrifugal sugar, dry gently. Pour the syrup reduced to a thin glaze round. Garnish with blanched and chopped pistachio nuts and sprays of preserved barberries round. To Preserve Barberries. Select fine bunches of the fruit, or make up the branches, using white silk to bind the sprays—sewing silk or floss silk will do. Stone them with a needle. Take a preserving pan, cover the bottom 3 inches deep with syrup. 1 lb. of sugar to the 1 lb. of fruit. Boil it to the thread, put in the fruit, let it boil up, then take it off the fire, let it stand J an hour in the hot syrup, boil up again, lift out the branches, boil the sugar 10 minutes and pour over the berries. Leave them till next day. Boil up the syrup once more, strain over the fruit, and leave them, tie down and store. N.B. During the whole process of boiling skim the syrup well, and if at the last boiling the fruit should have clouded the syrup, clear it with the whipped white of egg and shell. Straining the syrup through a very fine tammy or cloth. Perfume for Table Linen. Mix in a mortar with ^ oz. of magnesia, 1 oz. oil of lemon, 1 oz. oil of rosemary, 1 oz. of commercial musk, 1 oz. oil of lavender, J oz. of patchouli. Grind up well for quite 10 minutes, mix v/ith 1 quart of alcohol, stir it well up and filter. Pass the rest of J a gallon of spirit through the filter, bottle and cork. A very powerful and lasting perfume will be the result.HOTEL AND RESTAURANT COOKERY. 427 The Prince Consort's Perfume. I HAVE had the following given to me as a perfume, mixed and invented by the late Prince Consort, ** Albert the Good/' Ingredients:— Ambergris, 1 oz. Musk, J oz. Balsam of Peru, i oz. Essence of Jessamine, i oz, do. Cloves, J oz. Treble Distilled Orange Flower Water, ^ Pint. Rose Water, i Pint. Add the above to 3 pints of strong white rum. N.B. This can be used for perfuming Claret, and similar red wines. Also after stewing Apples, Pears, &c., in red wine, a few drops of this added to the syrup a/ter cooking, imparts a delicious fragrance. It is also a very fine toilet re- quisite. Add 1 tablespoonful, to a pint of white wine vinegar, use a few drops in the washing water or bath. Another Perfume. Ingredients :— Ambergris, Essence of I.nvender Water, 3 Minim.s. 1 oz. do. Patchouli, Spirit of Wine, i Pint. 1 oz. Mix and bottle.428 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. CHAPTER XIIL FOODS FOR THE SICK ROOM, A FEW hints on kitchen work in connection with sick-room foods may not be inappropriate in this work, as at Hotels we often have invalids, accident cases, and the like, and a little knowledge as to the peculiar preparation of the viands fre- quently used in such instances, I presume will therefore not be out of place. There are a many erroneous ideas with regard to the virtues of foods, when they ought to be taken, and the style of preparing them for the sick. Perhaps the greatest com- mon error is relative to Starch Foods. You will meet hundreds of nurses, and people of fair education, who insist that arrowroot, corn flour, rice flour, starch, &c., are all nutritious in themselves, particularly, the two first named. This is an error, arrowroot taken as the purest type of starch food is no more nutritious than chest- nut or potatoe fecule, {i. e. starch) or the corn flours prepared from maize or rice. I heard a very good illustration given of this at a food exhibition when the matter of starch foods was under discussion, **If you believe," said the lecturer, **that there are all the requisites for sustaining life in corn flour, it can easily be tested, live on corn flour and water for a fort- night, and the result will soon be apparent. Starch is a heat giver but not an actual nourisher. Taken with milk, how- ever, or used as vehicle for the conveyance of liquid foods, it is of immense value. New milk from the cow, in its pure state, would be too heavy and dense for an invalid, the parti-HOTEL AND RESTAURANT COOKERY. 429 To taste. Lump Sugar, crushed. cles thus mixed with the little sacs or bags of starch are diluted to a certain extent, and with a solid substance. The solidity thus given acts in a twofold manner. It prevents the too rapid absorption of the milk or other liquid foods by the lacteals; or the density of the curd from overweighting or pressing too heavily on the intestines, which in time of sick- ness are naturally sensitive to pressure. A sick man will often be unable to retain milk on the stomach, if given in a pure state, or even in a liquid form, whether diluted or mixed with another fluid. But when mixed and the particles of casine separated by the aid of starch foods, it is at once light, digestable, nutritious." The following are a few of the methods in which starch foods may be employed for the sick. Put the arrowroot into a breakfast cup or small basin, moisten it with three teaspoonfuls of cold milk, put the rest of the half pint of milk over the fire to boil, and sweeten it, using either lump or pearl sugar. Be very careful not to oversweeten it, for that is another common error. Sick peo- ple are doomed to be supplied with sweets, in over abun- dance. It gives them a distaste for their food and in cases of feverishness it is but adding fuel to the fire. When the milk rises in the pan, at once pour it on the moistened arrowroot, stirring the whole time. If wine or brandy is ordered with the arrowroot and milk, it is to be beaten in afler the arrow- root starch has burst its sacs, and become jelly-like, from the action of the boiling milk. To make it into a pudding, beat up an egg, mix in butter in a pie dish and bake, serve plain, or with preserve, fresh fruit stewed, or syrups, &c. Arrowroot and Milk. Milk, Arrowroot, 4- Pint. 2 Teaspoonfuls.43^ THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. Arrowroot and Beef Tea. Beef Tea, Arrowroot, Salt, i Pint. 1 Teaspoonful. To taste. Moisten the arrowroot with two teaspoonfuls of cold beef tea, (or water), put the rest of the beef tea in a pan over the fire to boil, season to taste, make it palatable, it is not because a man is ill, that he is to be supplied with food tast- ing like dish washings, unsavoury and uninviting. When the beef tea boils, stir in the arrowroot in the basin, and mix it with the liquor in the pan. Let it boil a minute or two and then pour it into the basin ; serve with or without toast or ground rusks. Prepare as above, using rather more than double the quantity of arrowroot, and serve either hot or cold. Put the arrowroot and the sugar into a small basin or cup, mix them well in a dry state, moisten with the brandy, pour in boiling water till the milky appearance is gone, and the arrowroot looks like starch as prepared for laundry work I'.e.f clear and semi-transparent. Serve hot or cold, as before directed. N.B. For dysentry or cholera, &c., ground cinnamon is mixed with the above. Beef Tea and Arrowroot Jelly. Arrowroot and Brandy. Brandy, (Cognac,) Arrowroot, Water, Sugar, 1 Tablespoonful. 1 Dessertspoonful. As required. To taste.HOTEL AND RESTAURANT COOKERY. 431 Sugar, To taste. Arrowroot and Burnt Brandy. Prepare the quantities as above, but mix the arrowroot with cold water, reserving the brandy till after the arrowroot is made into starch by the addition of the boiling water. Burn the brandy by setting fire to it, and whilst alight, stir or beat it into the arrowroot. This is also used in cases of dysentry, and frequently double the quantity of brandy is ordered if the case is severe. My practical experience is that rice starch, or corn flour, made from rice is better for such cases, as the rice is not so pure a starch as the arrowroot. Moisten the corn flour with 1 tablespoonful of cold milk, add the yolks of the eggs, put the rest of the milk in a clean saucepan, let it come to the boil, sweeten and stir in the egg and corn flour mixture rapidly. It is best to lift the pan off the fire, if it is an amateur who is working. Work it round with the wooden spoon till they are thoroughly mixed, now, —still stirring,—return to the fire for a minute or two just to cook the corn flour. Have a mould wetted and drained, pour in the jelly, and when cold, turn out and serve. If brandy or wine is added, use less milk, and beat it in after the jelly is taken off the fire, otherwise the spirit, or strength evaporates, by reason of the great heat, and may as well be left out alto- gether, if it is suffered to boil with the corn flour mixture. If flavourings are permitted, essence of lemon, or essence of noyeau, may be added, or a couple of peach leaves, a young Corn Fiour and Egg Jelly. Corn Flour, Yolks of Eggs, Milk, 1 Tablespoonful. 2. I Pint.432 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. laurel, a bayleaf, or one or two leaves from an orange plant, will give delicate and varied flavours to the jelly, should it have to be given for any long period. Corn Flour and Port Wine. Corn Flour, 3 Dessertspoonfuls. Milk, i Pint. Port Wine, i Pint. Sugar, To taste. Coriander Seeds, Cloves, Cinnamon. Moisten the corn flour with 2 tablespoonfuls of milk, put the rest over the fire in a saucepan, with a few of the above spices tied up in a piece of muslin, add also, sugar to taste. When it boils lift out the spice and stir in the corn flour, and when it is quite thick and cooked, lift the pan to the edge of the stove, beat in the port wine. Put it into a mould, when cold turn out. Or it can be used warm if ordered so. Corn Flour and Cowslip Wine. Corn Flour, 2 Tablespoonfuls. Cream, 2 do. Yolks of Eggs, 2. Cowslip Wine, 1^ Pints. Sugar, To taste. Moisten the corn flour in a basin with the cream and the yolk of egg. Heat the wine, and when very hot, but not quite boiling, stir in the thickening. Stir till it is quite thick, like a blanc-mange. Pour it into a mould, cool, and when set, turn it out. This is a stimulant and strengthening food. Corn flour, Fecule de Pomme de Terre (Potatoe Starch :) Fecule de Chatatgney (Chestnut Flour or Starch J &c., may allHOTEL And Restaurant cookery. 433 be used instead of the ingredients above named in the receipts, also rice corn flour as prepared by Coleman's firm. BEEF-TEAS Are tonics, restoratives, strengthgivers, but possess little or no nourishing properties. They contain a goodly percentage of animal albumen—the substance of which the white of an egg is formed. In making beef-tea the art is to extract the greatest quantity possible of this valuable element into the water. Then if this be so, all substances which harden albumen, must be avoided. Salt is one of the primary, for although it may loosen the juices by causing the fibrine to shrink; yet the albumen hardens, and juice extracted by salt therefore contains less of this substance, which is noted by scientists, as being, the most rapidly absorbed, of all known forms of food, by the human frame. Vinegar and vinegar sauces are other elements not admissable, they also act directly on the albumen. One of Her Majesty's Physi- cians, who is celebrated for his study of Culinary Medicine, prefers beef-tea made as below. Beef-Tea. Take lean gravy beef, from the neck of the beast. Remove off all the fat, skin and gristle. Scrape the flesh apart, or pass three times through a fine mincing machine,—say you have half a pound of lean meat. Put it into a jar, and add cold water sufficient to cover the meat, mix it well with a silver or wooden fork, beating it up for quite ten minutes, let it rest for twenty minutes; then place the jar in boiling water, and let it become tepid, strain off into a warm cup or vessel and serve. This changes the colour without losing the meat spirit, which like that of brandy, wine or milk, is lost when raised to a high temperature, i.e. it goes off in Bl]434 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. vapour, and the stimulant power has in consequence of the boiling, to be returned in the shape of brandy, and other products of vineous fermentation. Salt may now be added to taste. Extract of Beef. Mince the meat as for the above receipt. Fill a half pint gallipot, loosely with the beef, tie it down with a delicately oiled or buttered paper so as to make the cover quite steam proof. Place the pot in a bed of charcoal or rice,—leave a fair layer under as well as round ; say 2 inches. Put it into the oven, and bake slowly for IJ- to 2 hours. The oven 7nust he cooL The regulation ovens found in most London houses, fitted by parsimonious landlords are just the things for this work. They never get above 80° or 110° F., so that they are useful sometimes. This extract is strained, allowed to get cold, the fat, if any, removed, and the extract either given to the patient pure, and moderately heated, or mixed with other substances as water, to dilute it; corn flour or other starch goods, wine or similar stimulants. St. Thomas' Hospital Beef-Tea. (Tonic and Nourishing.) Ground, Dried, Beef Fibrine, 2 Tablespoonfuls. Lean Beef Minced, 4 do. Salt, To taste. Free lean beef from skin and fatty particles, mince very finely. There should be about 4 tablespoonfuls. Put it into a jar with 8 tablespoonfuls (4 fluid ozs.) of cold water. Tie it down and stand the jar in a saucepan with sufficient cold water in the pan to reach half way up the jar. Set it over a slow fire and let it simmer^ not boil; for 1^ to 2 hours.— Then lift it out, wipe the jar and strain the tea through aMOTEL AND RESTAURANT COOKERY. 435 fine strainer. Add salt and stir in the ground beef. Tins is for convalescents, and may be served with rusks or thin crisp dry toast cut into dice. Percolated Beaf-Tea. Mince say 1 lb. of beef neck or hind leg, the meat must be lean and juicy, all traces of fat removed, and the mince as fine as it is possible to be. Steep this in 1 pint of cold water for an hour; then beat it up with a fork for 10 minutes. Next put the meat into a funnel shaped strainer, large enough to hold both meat and liquid. Make the meat into a loose bed in the bottom of the strainer, pour the liquid on the top, and let it drip into a bottle or receiver, the juice that runs into the vessel first can be returned to the funnel strainer. It will be best to leave it 3 or 4 hours or all night if possible, to percolate. The beef is pressed at last with a silver or wooden spoon, and when all possible liquid is ex- pressed, the juice is heated till it turns brown, no more. Then salted and served. This is an idea of an eminent medical man, as to its particular virtues, I have nothing to say. Simple steeping, for 3, 6 or 12 hours would be to my mind quite as efi"ective and then straining in the ordinary way, before or after steeping, Mais, Chacun a sou gout. Milk Beaf-Tea or Broth Lean Beef, (or Mutton, Chicken or Veal) 1 lb. New Milk, 1 quart. Corn Flour, 1 Teaspoonful. Salt, To taste. Mince the meat finely, removing skin and fat; put it into a basin and beat it up with the milk, using a silver fork, and adding the milk by degrees till the meat is all separated into its particular and separate pieces. Let it lie for an hour,436 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. then put it into a clean pan and slowly bring it to the boil. The slower the better, simmer for half an hour. Strain and return to the pan; thicken with the corn flour, and then salt. If salt is added previously to this stage it will cause the milk to curdle. This can be flavoured with parsley if per- missable, and a square inch of lemon rind is a nice addition to a very nutritious beef-tea, or chicken broth, manufactured as above. The milk should simmer down to about 1 pint or even less, if it is required strong. It is best cooked in a Bain Marie, or in a jar standing in a saucepan with boiling water reaching halfway up the outside of the jar, this will ensure its not burning, and its being slowly cooked. The mince can be dressed with a little fresh meat for pies, or in hash. Preparations for Isinglass. Isinglass is supposed to be the gelatinous matter ex- tracted from the swimming bladder of the Sturgeon, also from fish bones, sole skins, &c., but it is just as frequently made from the substances that are used in the manufacture of gelatine, as not; only it is rather more highly refined, or we will say bleached than gelatine. But as many people believe in isinglass as a powerful health restorer, and toner up of the human frame in cases of sickness and debility, by all means let them use it, although the more simple and less expensive gelatine will be found to answer all practical purposes in these receipts. Provided the very fine thread or hair gelatine is used, such as that for instance of Messrs. Cox, of Scottish fame and name. Isinglass and Milk. Slightly warm \ pint of milk, add a pinch of isinglass. Stir round in the milk till dissolved, or if preferred, soak theHOTEL AND RESTAURANT COOKERY. 437 isinglass 10 minutes in the cold milk, and warm both together over the fire. It will dissolve eitlier way. Isinglass Blanc Mange. Soak J oz. of isinglass in J pint of cold milk for an hour, boil another i pint of new milk, sweeten, and stir in the soaked isinglass whilst the milk is boiling. When dissolved lift off the fire. Flavour with a drop or two of ratafia, vanilla or lemon essence. Stir till cooled down a little, then pour into a mould and let it set. To colour pink, add about 2 or 3 drops of cochineal. Orange flower water is preferred by many to other flavouring for sick room delicacies. Isinglass and Tea. Isinglass in tea and coffee is largely used in institutions on the continent, for patients suffering from Dipsomania. A dessertspoonful is soaked in milk, and the hot tea or coffee poured on to it. The beverage is then sweetened and given to the patient. Isinglass is used to clear coffee especially such as becomes cloudy from the presence of roasted bread beans." Isinglass and Wine. Mull the wine plain, or add spices, this depends on the state of the patient's internal organs. In some diseases spices are objectionable, in others necessary. When warmed and sweetened, add about a teaspoonful of isinglass to the l-8th of a pint, (large wine glass) of wine. This is consider- ed a strengthening beverage, especially if port or red wine is used. It is served with rusks, or thin strips of toast. Some- times a beaten up egg is added, but this is more fit for a convalescent.438 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. Savoury Puddings. Are very often more highly appreciated by the sick thaa sweet messes of jellies, and blanc manges, which so readily find their way from warm-hearted Samaritans to the domi- ciles of the sick and needy. I will give one or two recipes I have found useful. Savoury Rusk Pudding. No i. Take a couple of rusks, break them into rough lumps, as large as a fair sized chestnut or walnut, lay them in the bottom of a nicely buttered pie-dish. Beat up 2 eggs, and mix with -J pint of nicely flavoured beef-tea or stock, made from beef, mutton, veal, chicken, or any nice lean meat. The stock must not be greasy, and I need hardly add, that the perfume of garlic or onion, may in this case be dispensed with. Season with salt, a dust of pepper, (black is the mildest,) if permitted. Pour over the rusks, and at once put into the oven and bake. Savoury Rusk Pudding. No 2. Take J lb. of lean veal or lean mutton, and stew in a quart of new milk. The meat is better and more quickly cooked if it is first passed through the mincer, beaten up with the cold milk, and both put on to stew together, and simmer slowly for an hour or more. Do not let it boil. When cooked, strain, and mix with 2 eggs,—the milk should be reduced just i. Lay 3 rusks in a buttered pie dish, pour the egg mixture over, season with salt, &c., and bake in a sloiv oven for f of an hour to 1 hour. A slow oven by the way, is best for custard mixtures of this kind.HOTEL AND RESTAURANT COOKERY. 439 Savoury Rusk Pudding. No 3. Put into a basin 2 rusks—tops and bottoms." Pour over them pint of beef-tea, or veal, mutton, or chicken broth, which is just removed from the fire in an actual boiling state. Cover this down with a saucer, and leave it for from 15 to 20 minutes to soak. In the meantime, mince 2 oz. of mutton or veal suet, (beef would be too rich and heavy,) beat it up with the rusks, season, and beat in 2 eggs. Butter a basin, pour in the mixture. Steam for an hour and serve. This nourishing little pudding can be given some five or six days before solid meat food can be attempted in serious cases. If made with milk beef-tea it is of course richer in nutritious matters. Savoury Cerealine Pudding. No i. Stir into boiling beef-tea, or broth, 1 tablespoonful of cerealine, cooked hominy, or shreded maize. (It is known by all these names and more I believe, according to the firm by whom it is issued,) to each i pint of liquor. Let it boil a second, lift it off the fire and beat in an egg, season witli salt, &c., to taste. Bake long enough to set the egg, 7 to 10 minutes, and the pudding is ready. Savoury Cerealine Pudding. No 2. Stir 1 tablespoonful of cerealine into |- pint of boiling milk, add salt and savoury spices, also an egg beaten up. Put into a buttered basin and boil or steam for J to f of an hour. Turn out and serve with beef-tea or gravy, as sauce. N.B. Beef-tea, or milk stock, can be used instead of plain milk, and the addition of cream makes the pudding of course richer for those patients who can take it, but cream is often too rich for very weak digestions.440 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. Savoury Puddings on the above patterns may be made of bread crumbs, and plain biscuits in place of rusks; of rice, barley, sago, tapioca, and whole meal, instead of cerealine, but they will all require stewing or creeing, to soften the grain in the first four mentioned. Savoury oatmeal puddings are very delicious, but too heating in their properties except for convalescents. They are made as Rusk No. 3. or cerealine Nos. 1. and 2. Hominy is not a general favourite in its preparation, known as " pearl" but rather in its cooked and shreded form. '* The pearl " requires soaking and stewing, and then manipulating as cerealine. Tomato and Cerealine Pudding. No. i. Slice tomatoes and lay them in the bottom of a pie-dish. Season them with salt and pepper, add 1 very thin ring of mild Spanish onion. Heat some good beef-tea or stock, over the fire to boiling point. Suppose you have a pint of liquid nicely seasoned, stir in 2 tablespoonfuls of cerealine. Then beat up an egg into it, (or 2 eggs if you wish it,) place it over the tomatoes and bake. Used in cases of kidney disease and diabetes, so also is Tomato and Cerealine Pudding. No. 2. Cook the tomatoes in beef-tea, chicken, veal or mutton broth, nicely flavoured. Let there be an equal quantity of sliced tomatoes and liquor. Pass the whole through a sieve. Then return to the pan, add 3 dessertspoonfuls of cerealine to each pint of stock ; beat in an egg, and either steam or bake. Serve with some of the plain stock and tomato; re- served for the purpose, before the cerealine is added, either round the pudding, or in a sauce boat or tureen. Used as above.HOTEL AND RESTAURANT COOKERY. ^41 Tomato and Cerealine Pudding. No. 3. Boil 1 pint of new milk, thicken by cerealine, it will take about 2 tablespoonfuls. After it is thickened, season with salt and a grate of nutmeg, if the latter is permissable, or pepper. Cut the tomatoes into slices, and again into dice. Mix them with the cerealine, add an egg, and steam for la- bours in a nicely buttered basin, turn out, and serve with gravy or milk, a little thickened by corn flour, and seasoned ; 1 teaspoonful to the J pint, just thickens the milk and per- mits of salting. OATMEAL DISHES. In cases of " Rickets Oatmeal Puddings have been ordered for children, the following are a few of the recipes I have followed:— Savoury Oatmeal Pudding. Scald 2 ozs. of medium ground, Aberdeen Scotch Oat- meal, by placing it in a basin and pouring over J- pint of boiling water, chicken broth, or meat stock ; beat up an egg, add 2 tablespoonfuls of milk, and a tablespoonful of minced mutton suet; also a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, sea- soned with salt. Put into a buttered basin, steam for Ij- to 2 hours, and serve with or without gravy. This is varied by Oatmeal Pudding. No. 2. Take 2 tablespoonfuls of oatmeal, (English flour oatmeal) mix with it 1 tablespoonful of minced rasins. Beat up an egg, and to the egg add i pint of skim milk. Season the oatmeal with salt and pepper, very little of the latter, using black pepper; or grind the long peppers yourself so as to442 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. get it pure and mild ; strong stimulants are bad for patients. Put the egg and milk gradually to the oatmeal till it is like a batter, and add the rasins. Steam in a buttered basin, and serve with gravy. Or for a convalescent, it can be fried in thin pancakes, and served with gravy. SWEET PUDDINGS FOR INVALIDS. Light Brown Bread Pudding. Take 2 ozs. of stale brown bread, and make it into crumbs. Sift them and put them into a basin with IJ- oz. of finely minced mutton suet. Rub the two together, so. that they are well mixed, boil J pint of milk and sweeten it. Pour it over the crumbs, and let them soak whilst you beat up 2 eggs. Strain them, and then mix in with the pudding, add 1 or 2 drops of lemon, orange, vanilla, or other essence, according to the patient's fancy, or cook plain. Steam in a buttered mould for 1 hour, and serve with a glass of wine poured over, or thickened milk ; either cherry, black currant, or raspberry syrup, is delicious with this nourishing little pudding. White crumbs can be dressed in a similar manner. Millet Pudding. Stew 2 ozs. of millet in milk till quite tender. Beat in an egg, add sugar and flavouring, and steam in a buttered basin for 1 hour, or bake 20 to 30 minutes, according to your oven facilities. The oven must not be too hot. Serve with syrups or stewed fruit. Millet and Fig Pudding. Stew 2 ozs. of millet in milk as above, sweeten slightly as the figs will be sweet. Chop 1 oz. of good figs intoHOTEL AND RESTAURANT COOKERY. 443 small dice and mix with the millet, beat in a couple of eggs. Put into it about 3 drops of essence of lemon. Pour into a buttered basin, steam about hours. Serve with milk boil- ed and thickened with corn flour, 1 teaspoonful of corn flour to the gill (J pint) of milk, and sweeten a little. N.B. Millet can be bought at any seed shop, and is ex- tremely cheap and healthful. Rusk Pudding. Break 2 tops and bottoms into rough lumps, and lay them in a pint pie-dish that has been buttered. Throw over them 1 wineglassful of cowslip or marsala wine, and let them stand 10 minutes. Beat up an egg with J pint of milk, sweeten. Pour this over the rusks. Bake from 15 to 20 minutes, and sift sugar over the top and serve. This pud- ding is also nice steamed and served with syrups. Temper- ance houses can replace the wiiie with cherry^ red currant, or other sweet syrup. Lemon will not do as the acid would curdle the custard. Sweet Cerealine Puddings. Cerealine makes good sv/eet puddings, with milk and eggs, either baked or boiled. Its great advantage is that it does not require creeing, but as soon as the boiling milk is poured over it is ready for the egg, sweetening and flavour- ing, and can be either steamed or baked. Like rice it makes a good pudding with milk only, and also shapes, &c., to eat cold with stewed fruits, jams, syrups, &c. It takes from 10 to 15 minutes to bake, and 20 to 30 to steam. Chops and Steaks. When cooking these see that the fire is clear and bright. No smoke or flame especially if grilled over the fire. A little powdered nitre strewn over the fire quickly clears it, or a handful of common salt.444 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. Many medical men object to the foods being grilled over the fire. They say the meat absorbs the sulphurous fumes emitted by the coal or coke used in cooking, and that the food is better and more wholesome when cooked in front. The same law is applicable to gas grillers. If the gas is not purified thoroughly at the gas works, the chop or steak invariably partakes of the flavour, if cooked over gas. That is why I always prefer those ranges that supply roasters and grillers, which cook by a deflection of heat, i.e. the gas jets are over not under the food. The fire being clear, grease the bars of the grid, after warming, and lay on the chop or steak. Turn it every minute till it is cooked, so that none of the gravy may escape. The more it is turned the better. Do not cook one side and then turn the other, or all the fine juices of the meat will be lost. Serve as little fat or grease to an invalid as possible, and but small chops and steaks. Small quantities tempt, and large pieces very frequently disgust and repel the appetite. Greasy gravies should be avoided. Generally the patient has had so many beef-teas and gruels that he relishes the grill au naturel. A speck of Maitre Hotel butter^ or plain butter, may be placed on the top, if the patient would like it. Dust a little castor salt over when it is dished, and serve with plain bread or toast. Salad Dressings. These vary greatly and according to taste. The most popular high class dressing is the Mayonnaise. This can be bought in bottles from the stores; high class Grocers, and at Italian warehouses,—but it is best home and freshly made.1 Saltspoonful. kOTEL AND RESTAURANT COOKERY. 445 Salt, Ingredients:— Spiced White Wine Vinegar, 1 Tablespoonful. Choose round brown-shelled eggs. The round eggs con- tain more yolk than the long, pointed ovals. Those with brown shells generally have a deeper coloured yolk than a white-shelled egg. Remove the white carefully from each egg. Put the yolks into a basin. Take a small wooden spoon and commence an even, regular, stirring; one way, and add the oil drop by drop. There are proper stoppers for this work in good kitchens, and the cost is about a few pence, so that, the dirty trick of the uniniated cook, of letting it drip from her finger ends, is a thing of the past. If there is not a "jug pattern'* or "Lipped cork tap," on the premises, cut a notch or pierce the cork, so that the oil drips slowly and cleanly from the cork, and not over the fingers. Stir till the egg has taken up all the oil, and become quite thick. It will be slow work, but the success of the sauce depends on the quiet regular stirring. When it looks like a paste, almost dilute it with vinegar, added in the same manner, as the oil has been mixed in, salt it, and it is ready for use. Flask oil is not always the best. Most of the Florence oil " so called, is the produce of cotton seeds sent from this country to Italy, there purified, and returned in foreign flasks as pure " olive oil " (sic.) Cotton oil is not poisonous—in fact it is good and healthful,—but one does not care to buy a painted sparrow as a canary, or cotton oil as the olive product. Uses : For salads, cold fish, fowl, vegetables En Mayon- naise, Finest Lucca Olive Oil, Yolks of Large Brahma Eggs, 2 ozs.=4 Tablespoonfuls. 3 Raw.44S THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. German Salad Dressing. I?ig7^edienis:— Hard Boiled Eggs, Raw Egg, Olive Oil, Spiced White Vinegar, Tarragon Vinegar, Pepper and Cayenne, Salt, Mustard Flour, Cream, 3 Yolks only. 2 do. 1 oz. = 2 Tablespoonfiils. J oz. = l Dessertspoonful. 1 Dram = l Teaspoonful. To Taste. 1 Saltspoonful. 1 do. 1 Tablespoonful. Rub the yolks of the hard boiled eggs through a tammy sieve; steel wire, or fine strainer. The former is best and finest grained of course. Sprinkle the dry mustard and the salt over the puree of egg. Then blend with the yolk of raw egg. Next add the cream, stirring all in the one direc- tion. Now add the oil drop by drop. Dilute with the vinegar as directed for the mayonnaise. Season to taste with white and red pepper, and serve. Used for salads, cold meats and vegetables, &c. German Salad Dressing. (2.) Ingredients:— Yolks of Hard Boiled Eggs, Cream, Vinegar, Capers, Minced, Salt, Mint or other Herb Vinegar, Peppers, Ground, Red or White, To Taste. Pass the yolks through a sieve, and make them into a paste with a little of the cream. Then dilute with the re- 4 Tablespoonfuls. 3 do. 2 do. 1 Saltspoonful. 1 Teaspoonful.HOTEL AND RESTAURANT COOKERY. 447 mainder,—add the vinegars very carefully, season with pepper, salt, &c. At the end stir in the capers whole or minced, as preferred. N.B. Where cream is not to be add, i pint of milk boiled, and 1 small teaspoonfiil of corn flour, arrowroot or FecuP de Pomnie de Terre; on Chatatg?ie, may be moistened, with cold milk, and stirred into the boiling mixture, to render it the consistence of cream. When cool use as cream. The whip- ped white of an egg too, makes the mixture richer, but it must be stirred till nearly cold, if the egg is added. Uses as No. 1. Mix the mustard and " pearl" or crushed lump sugar to- gether whilst dry; then work into a paste with vinegar, dilute when it is quite smooth. Add the oil drop by drop. Season with salt and peppers. Pour over or mix up with the salad just at the time of serving. Capers, minced pickles, chopped eggs, &c., may be mixed wdth this dressing, in fact a variety of changes in the ingredients of the sauce may be made at the will of the cook. Mustard Dressing. Ifigredienls :■ Mustard Flour, Vinegar, Oil, Salt, Sugar, Pepper and Cayenne, 1 Teaspoonful. 1 oz. = 2 Tablespoonful. i oz. = l do. 1 Saltspoonful. 1 do. To Taste. Sugar and Pepsine in Sauces. I KNOW it is not a general rule or generally known or practised, but I always put a small suspicion of sugar in all vinegar sauces. They are more agreeable to the palate and448 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. of softer, milder gout; whilst it renders the acid less violent in its action on teeth and stomach, and no way impairs its value in softening the tissues of the vegetable and meat fibrines, and rendering them easy of mastication and diges- tion. Pepsine too should enter all sauces for green and raw vegetable salads. They will then agree with the most delicate. The Pepsine should be from Calf's rennet. Home made of course is best. Fresh Water Mussel Sauce. Make a good Bechamel or Cream Sauce. Open the mussels, rinse them, and scald in white stock. Then cut the larger in halves or chop them into rough pieces. Mix with the sauce, and season with spices. To Clarify Dripping and Render Fat. Place the fat cut into dice, or the dripping that has been strained, in a large pan with water, \ the quantity of the fat, and a couple of bars of charcoal. Boil till the water has evaporated and the fat is still and silent. Strain through an old wire sieve into a lard tub, containing about 3 pints to 2 quarts of cold water. Let it form into a cake and become cold. Raise from off the water, scrape the bottom of the impurities and melt in jars in the oven, this is called training. " Outsides of butter" or butter scrapings are " trained " i,e, melted in jars, and the impurities, dirt, &c. precipitated, it then becomes hard, the refuse is scraped from the bottom, and the butter used for pastry.HOTEL AND RESTAURANT COOKERY. 449 CHAPTER XIV.—CURIOUS FOODS. Horseflesh. During my professional career, I have been called upon to dress many curious dishes; at least, so English people fancy them. I will give you one or two Epicurean dishes which I have prepared, and for which I hold receipts. Foremost comes Horseflesh. It is sweeter than oxflesh, pinker in colour. The nearest approach is cow's flesh, but the Horseflesh has more sugar in its composition. It makes capital '* olives;" steak pies, &c.; and when roasted in joints it requires larding, as it is leaner as a rule than beast's flesh. It is largely used for German Polonies, and gives them the sweet taste they possess. Mock Polonies have saltpetre to produce the pink tinge of the Horseflesh, and the sweetness of the Inosite, or meat sugar, is produced by ordinary sugar sweetening. Horseflesh is often heavier bulk for bulk than oxflesh. Fillet of Horseflesh. Take a nice fillet from the hind leg, next the round, say 4J lbs. Bone and stufl" with veal stuffing. Lard with a large needle in heavy piquee's. Place in a hraisiere, (braising pan) on a bed of carrot, sliced, J small turnip, an onion with 6 or more cloves stuck into it, a bay leaf, and bouquet of sweet herbs. Have a stock made of bones, and pour in till it reaches half way up the joint. Stew for an hour and a half gently, and then finish in the usual way, for a braise. Glazing the gravy and browning the piquees. Serve as a releve» Cutlet of Horseflesh a la Soudanese. Cut a thick steak ofl" the round. Prepare the following mixture:—1 tablespoonful of curry powder, 1 dessertspoon- ful of brown baked flour, and the grated rind of a lemon, and a little salt. Rub this into the cutlet, next egg and bread crumbs, fry in butter till cooked a delicate brown. Serve with lentils stewed in stock, round a square inch of cc450 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. lemon rind, a shalot cooked with the lentils greatly im- proves them. Millet cooked as a vegetable in stock or milk goes well with horseflesh, and also with;— Goat's Flesh. Goat's flesh is apt to be rather rank. Home bred kid flesh is one of the most delicious meats I know of when due care has been taken that the young goat has not been fed on garbage, such as cabbage leaves, turnip peelings, &c. To dress goat's flesh, do not select too old an animal. Goat is best served as ragout, mince, and similar style of dishes. Soak the meat well in water for a couple of hours, if you think it ** strong.'' It should hang from 4 days to a week in summer, and a fortnight will not hurt it in the winter season, it will soften the tissues, like hanging turkeys, &c. Ragout of Goafs Flesh. A la Miladi Burdett Coutts.) RESPECTFULLY DEDICATED BY CORDON BLEU* Cut lean meat into delicate pieces, steep in vinegar for 1 hour, wipe dry, dip in seasoned flour, fry in butter or drip- ping, when brown lift out. Fry carrot, 2 ozs., turnip, 1 oz., onions, 1 oz., sliced in thin rings, till brown, on no account burn or over brown, make a brown roux with baked flour and the butter left in the pan, moisten with stock that is well flavoured and seasoned, make enough to cover the meat and vegetables, simmer the meat and vegetables in this for quite two hours, skimming off the grease as it rises. Serve with crutons and a hot macedoine of vegetables round as a wall to the ragout. Baked beans, (the white haricot, or scarlet runner seeds,) make a very fine addition as a dressing to the dish.HOTEL AKD RESTAURANT COOKERY. 45! Fry of Goat's or Kid's Flesh. Take moderate slices of the meat, beat them thoroughly, dip them in well seasoned flour, to which the grated rind of half a lemon and a few sifted sweet herbs are added. Cut an equal number of slices of very fat bacon, roll the slices of kid or goat's flesh lengthwise as for'* olives," and roll the strips of fat bacon round, fasten with a small wooden sk e werj fry till the meat inside is cooked. Serve with a puree of green peas, beans, or carrot, and good rich brown gravy for sauce. Roast Leg of Kid or Goat. PiQUEE the leg with good smoked bacon fat, taking deep stitches and using a large larding needle for the purpose, cut the sinews near the knuckle, and turn round the shank, as for mutton, or venison, steep in red wine or vinegar seasoned with pepper and salt, also a tablespoonful of olive oil beaten up with it. Let the meat be covered with this, especially if it is goat's flesh. Leg of kid may rem.ain 3 to 4 hours, goac's leg quite 6 to 8 hours. This softens the fibres, and takes off the strong wild taste of the older animal. Roast before a clear fire, keeping it well basted the whole time. Be careful not to put too much salt in the marinade, if wine is used it can be utilized in making the gravy, which is prepared from a brown roux, made of butter, 2 ozs., melted in a saucepan ; as soon as it oils, and before it froths, stir in 3 tablespoonfuls of flour, that has been baked a fawn colour in the oven. When the two are thoroughly incorporated, dilute it by degrees, with half good brown stock and half red wine, (from the marinade), stir till it thickens and comes to the boil, then draw on one side and let it simmer very slowly, carefully skimming off the fat as it rises, pass through a very finu452 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. strainer into a hot sauce tureen, and serve a little round the joint, but the gravy should touch as little of the outside crisp portion of the meat as possible. N.B. If the goat is very young and tender it is very good plainly roasted as for leg of mutton, and to those who like lean meat it is most toothsome. Frogs. Canned frogs can be had at all the large grocers and Italian warehouses. The same rule applies to their use as to the preparation of tinned beef, mutton, oysters, &c. They do not require cookings only warming and dressing. Frogs au Blanc. Make a white roiix of flour that has been baked (or high dried) and is perfectly white. Many amateurs who are afraid of spoiling the goods, boil the flour 6 or 7 hours in a basin and grate it down, but that incurs a waste of an inch or two on the top, and if proper attention is given to it, it is the easiest and most nutritious method to bake the flour. Put the butter into a saucepan, when it oils, stir in 2 tablespoon- fuls of flour to the 1 oz. of fresh cooking butter. Then add nicely flavoured white stock and a couple of spoonfuls of cream or milk, make a medium thick sauce, let it boil up once, and then draw ofl" the fire and let the contents of the pan simmer for some two or more hours, skim off the fat as it rises. When ready to serve, open the tin of frogs round the top and under the rim. A bull's-head is best for this purpose there is more purchase for cutting round. Slip the contents gently into a basin, sprinkle with salt, &c., and cover it over with a saucer and stand the basin in a pan of boiling water until the contents of the bowl are thoroughly hot, then pile the pieces into a pyramid, pour the sauce overHOTEL AND RESTAURANT COOKERY. 453 SO as to cover every portion, decorate with a wall of green peas and with butterflies of lemon, i, e., thin rings of lemon halved and nearly quartered, the apex of the triangles meet- ing and a piece of parsley or watercress put between the two quarter circles to represent the body of the butterfly. Frogs in Brown Sauce. Prepare a brown roux, using baked fawn-coloured flour, brown stock or gravy stock in place of white, adding a glass of red wine. Prepare it exactly as in the above receipt, only making the difference in the flour, stock, and wine, as here noted. Live Frogs to Dress. Put the frogs into a large basin, cover them with a thick towel, take a kettle containing boiling water and inserting the the spout under the towel, pour it as rapidly as you can over them. It is cruel to cut them whilst alive and answers no good purpose, in fact the frogs are more easily dressed and better eating if killed instantaneously by means of boiling water. Leave them for a quarter of an hour, then take them one by one, lay them on the back, make a slight cut down the inner side and crosswise, cutting only the outer skin, you will find practice enable you to become an expert. It is a similar operation to removing the inner skin of a gizzard from a fowl, &c. The sack containing the entrails will be easily lifted out, and the head can then be cut off", leaving the edible portions, viz., hind legs and back free. The cut- ting off" of the head prevents the escape of verdure or digestive juices from the sack. Wash and wipe the hind quarters, dip them in flour and fry in butter, when browned, stew in well ifjavoured stock.454 '^HE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. thicken the gravy with baked flour, and season it nicely. They are also excellent Frogs, en Pain. Prepare as above, or take the frogs from the tin, dip in flour, brush over with beaten up eggs, and dust over each joint with nicely seasoned bread crumbs, using salt, black pepper, grated lemon rind, and a dust of cayenne. Repeat the dressing a second time and then fry till of a beautiful golden colour. By the way a lovely golden hue is given to fried goods by using a dessertspoonful of egg powder (Free- man's) to every half pint of sifted crumbs, pile on a hot nap- kin, garnish with fried parsley. Send brown or white sauce piquante to table in a separate tureen. Frogs, au Gratin. Lay the cleansed pieces on a tin already thickly strewn over with minced mushrooms and sifted brown crumbs, dust over with pepper and sprinkle with salt. Then strew a few sweet herbs over the little joints, squeeze the juice of a lemon so that a few drops falls on each, dust brown crumbs carefully over, lay a square inch of lemon rind in the centre of the pan, and add a breakfast cupful of brown .stock to every 20 quarters. The pieces must all lie separate, a clove of garlic may or may not be added, according to taste of guests in the hotel, cover with a buttered paper and bake for half an hour in a moderate oven, brown and serve on little plates. They are often dressed thus and served in scallop shells or small Hors d'CEuvres of earthenware made on pur- pose for such dishes. When intended for Hors d'CEuvres do not spare the cayenne. Frogs can be served as curries, dry or in sauce, fried in oilHOTEL AND RESTAURANT COOKERY. 455 batter, in fact in any way in which you would or could dress pigeons and chickens, and all are good. Slugs and Snails. Although it may not be generally known, slugs and snails (the Helix Pomacia or Apple Snail) enters largely into the dietary of the English people. And why not ? They are clean feeding. In Bristol, Birmingham, &c., they are openly sold for food purposes, and hotels frequently use large quan- tities. They are best in the autumn, just before the hiber- nating season, being then plump and fat. Having procured the snails, the first process is to strew salt over them, this removes the masticated verdure in the shape of froth or foam of a green colour, rinse them, after they have been salted an hour, in tepid water, put them into fresh salt and water and then drain this off; put the "Helix" into a saucepan with about 1 pint of water, cook as if mussels or cockles; drain off the liquor and pick them out with a fine skewer, rinse in tepid water, and then they are ready for oyster patties, &c. You find them as— Huitres de terre Au Blanc. They are then served in white sauce. Half pint of the ** Helix" to half a pint of sauce, and crutons arranged round the dish. Or with thin brown bread and butter, with lemon rings, if for a supper dish. They appear as Huitres de Terre^ and a very good cognomen too, they are more sub- stantial as a dret, than the Htntres de Mer. A man could not eat 6 dozen Helix " and then go to dinner as if he had not tasted food for a fortnight, as Brillat Saverin relates of a friend. The white slug is mostly used as food, although many years ago, when travelling through the heart of Germany, I456 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. found in the forest a colony of Germans, who had the Black Orionater salted as Cornish men salt the " Fair Maids " (Pilchards,) and they were such good eating, that I inquired what the food was, and found it to be a dish of black slugs, caught at early morn and dewy eve, and judi- ciously salted. The Barn Rat. This animal came under my manipulation after the Rev. Mr. Wood, the naturalist, had contributed his experience of their edible qualities to the papers. They should be skinned and opened like a rabbit. Lay them in salt and water for an hour or so, if you feel timid as to virus lurking in the body. Do not use the head. Cut into quarters, fry and then make into ragouts. Pies are very savoury. But town rats and sewer rats, those animals that have access to horrible garbage, and decaying animal matter, are not fit for use. Rat pie is made as for pigeon pie, except that the heads and claws are not used. I must say with all due deference to your worthy divine and naturalist, that I vastly prefer a gipsy Hedgehog Pie, To his rat preparation. When the Hedgehog is caught, cut a slit right across the throat, if you can get at it, if not, pour boiling water over as for the frogs. Skin the beast, slit the skin on the inner side carefully, so as to cut only one membrane, then remove the sac containing the entrails, wash the carcase, cut it into 4, dip in flour, and place in a pie-dish with herbs, &c., sprinkled between. Season well with pepper and salt, add J a teacupful of stock, cover, make a hole in the crust, decorate as for meat pie. Bake, and when cooked, add a good drop of stock, containingHOTEL AND RESTAURANT COOKERY. 457 soup strengthener, (gelatine) or the reduced liquor from bones and meat that will jelly when cold. Can be eaten hot or cold. Roast Hedgehog. Skin and remove the entrails. Wash and wipe the animal. Stuff with fine veal stuffing, of sifted bread crumbs, parsley, thyme, marjoram, lemon rind, tablespoonful of suet, milk, or 1 egg. If milk, add a little egg powder to tone it, and make it tempting, pepper, salt, and mace to taste. Mix and stuff the meat, stitch it up. Dip in oiled butter, or drip- ping, and roast or bake. Serve with rich brown gravy sauce. The Hedgehog makes a dainty dish. Salmi and ragouts also are very fine made from this animal. The gipsies make a paste of wet clay, put it round the animal without re- moving the skin, and bake it wood ashes. It is fairly good when thus dressed. Locusts. Locusts are not bad eating. They devastate the country they pass through, and coming to the seaboard die in shoals and heaps along the coast. The African natives deprived of their green corn and rice, &c., cook and eat these said locusts. The most general way is to parch them, by roasting them over a fire, as they parched or " popped," as Americans call it, the cobs of maize in the ancient days of the Ruth and Boaz Bible Story. Some people divest the insect of legs and wings, dip them in butter, fry, sprinkle with salt, and eat. English gentlemen say they have tried various methods, and French Savants in the pursuit of culinary and general knowledge, have no doubt eaten the Locusts, as many have done the earthworm, which is rolled in flour dipped in batter, and eaten by those who relish such honne hoiiches. No doubt some very clever naturalist of the Frank458 ' THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. Buckland type, will some day find the Black Beetles are ex- quisite table dainties, but I only trust Cordon Bleu may never be asked to cook them. They are plague enough in our kitchens, and like the rats have an intelligence that prevents them falling into the most skilfully set traps. Rhubarb leaves are a faint extinguisher. Mice and Crablets. We had a Heathen Chinee, who dressed mice exquisitely, as Compote, Salmi or Ragout, Dainty Morsels, and would spend hours catching tiny crablets, and serving them up with spiced vinegar, the creatures are sent to table alive, and devoured by Chinese servants in the same style that we would take an oyster or an uncooked mussel.THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. 459 THE SEASONS FOR VEGETABLES. American Green Corn Cobs, American Sweet Mountain Corn Asparagus, Asparagus, Canned, Artichokes, Artichokes, Underground, Beetroots, Beans, (Small French) Beans, English Growth, Beans, Scarlet Runners, Beans, White Haricots, Green, Beans, White Haricots, Dried, Beans, Black Haricots, Nigger Beans, Black Haricots, Nigger Beans, Broad Windsor, Brocoli, Brussels Sprouts, Cabbage, Green and White, Cabbage, Red, Carrots, Garden, Carrots, Field, Cardoons, Celery Plant, Celery Seeds, Celeraic, Cucumbers, Forced or House, Cucumbers, Garden, Cress, Spring Garden, Cress, Land, Cress, Water, Dandelion Leaves for Salad, . Dandelion Leaves, Blanched, Dandelion Roots, Latter end of Aug. and Sept, Cobs, Canned All the year. February to July. All the year. May to October. October to May. November to June. Christmas to August. June to August. May to October. May to October. All the year. Beans, Dried, All the year. Beans, Green, June to October. July to October. September to May. October to March, Throughout the Year. October to January. June to February. November to May. November to January. September to April. All the year. April to September. All the year. June to November. March to September^ All the year. February to September. February to July. February to October. August to November.460 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. Endive, ,, September to May. iLgg f[a.nt, July to September. Gherkins, ,, ,, ., June to November (jreens, Curly, November to March. Hop Tops, as Greens, .. ,, June to July. Kale, Green and Variegated, , . October to February. Leeks, May to October. Lettuce, ., ., ,, April to October. Marrows, June to October. Mushrooms, House Cultivated, , . .. All the year. Mushrooms, Field, September to October. M^ushrooms, Canned or Bottled, , , ,. All the year. Morels, October to Januar}^. Morels, jDOttiea, , .. All the year. Nettles for Spinach, ^c. .» ,, ,. February to May. Onions, .. .. .. . .. All the year. Onions, Green, .. February to July. Onions, Spanish, August to February. Parsnips, .. • • .. . October to February. Peas, Green, ., ., • May to October. Peas, Dried, ., .. . • .. All the year. Peas, Sugar Pea, English Growth, July to September. Potatoes, All the year. Pumpkin, Golden, to Store, • • September to March, Pumpkin, Golden or Green, . • . . July to first trost. Pumpkin, Golden, Canned, .. .. All the year. Radish Roots and Leaves, .. ., February to August. Radish Pods, as Vegetable or Pickle, July to September. Salad Lettuce, French Cos, January to August. Salad Lettuce, English Growth, April to September. Salad Lettuce, Cabbage, May to September. Salsify, or Oyster Plant, July to September. Savoys, October to January. Seakale, •. ., January to October. Shalots, September to March. Sorrel, Meadow or Sheep, February to September. Sorrel, Wood Trefoil, ^. May to October.ARTICLES IN SEASON. 46t Spinach, .. November to July. 1 omatoes, July to January. Truffles, August to September. Irumes, JDOttled, All the year. Turnips, White Garden, April to September. Turnips, Swede, November to February, Turnip Tops, February to April. Any or all these vegetables can be had in large or small quantities, from the tradespeople at Covent Garden or Smith- field Markets, London; also at the Liverpool, Manchester and Birmingham Markets; small quantities can be transmitted through parcel post. This is especially applicable to Herbs in Season. Bay Leaves, Throughout the year. Balm, June to September. Basil, April to October. Burnet, June to September. Chervil, .. January to September. Chives, May to September. Celery Leaves, for use or drying, June to September. Elderflowers, according to district, May to July. Fennel, February to September. Garlic, June to September. Garlic Leaves, March to July. Horseradish, November to February. Hyssop, June to September. Lemon Verbena, March to October. Marjoram, May to September. Mint, March to October. Parsley, All the year. Peppermint, May to September. Pennyroyal, April to October. Sage, All the year. Savoury, May to September. Tarragon, January to September.462 THE NEW GUIt)E FOR tlOTELS, ETC. Thyme, .. .. .. .. May to September. Thyme, Lemon, .. .. .. June to September. Purchase or gather the herbs in dry weather, just before flower- ing period, when the leaves possess the greatest quantity of aromatic flavour. They are best sun-dried in the open air, rubbed down, and bottled, corked and sealed. Roots are best gathered after the flowering season, towards the approach of winter, when the juices or sap runs back to the root, and the leaves are beginning to wither. Mint, Balm, Tarragon, Basil, Garlic, Celery Seed, and other Vinegars. Must be prepared from strong vinegar. The leaves, seeds, roots or bulbs, as for instance, green Tarragon leaves, stripped from the stalk, celery or fennel seed, horseradish or garlic, the two latter divested of outer rind, and cut into small pieces, are put into bottles that are perfectly clean and dry. The vinegar is poured on, i pint to the oz., corked and sealed. Left for one month, and it is ready for use. The garlic vinegar is very strong and requires using with caution. The Seasons for Meats. Beef, .. .. .. ., Throughout the year. House Lamb, .. .. .. December to April. Lamb, Grass .. .. ,. March to August. Kid, .. .. .. .. April to August, Mutton, .. .. Throughout the year. Pork, best from .. ,. .. October to April. Pig, Sucking, .. .. .. November to March. Veal, .. .. .. Adarch to September. Sucking Pig is the only meat that will require peculiar roast- ing; the head should be enveloped in several buttered papers, and guarded from the fire till the hams and thicker portion of the body are cooked. The body should be stuffed, and theARTICLES IN SEASON. 463 animal sent to table whole, with a lemon in its mouth. Moun- tain ash berry, and apple jelly, are served with the pig, and sometimes cranberry sauce* Baste with oil, or pork dripping. Beef or mixed dripping would flavour the meat; Seasons for Poultry. Chickens, .. .. .. Throughout the year. Ducklings, .. .. ,. ., March to August. Ducks, s. .. ,. .. June to January* Fowls, .» .. . * . i All the year. Geese, . * . * , > September to January. Geese, Green, .. .. .. April to August. Larks, .. .. .. .. August to March. Pigeons, Nest, .. .. April to May. Pigeons, Tame Nest, .. .. .. Summer months. Pigeons, Wild, .. .. .. July to March. Pigeons, Tame, .. .. . . All the year. Turkeys, .. November to March. Turkeys, Poulets, .. .* .. June to August* Seasons for Game, c^c. Blackcock, Ducks, Wild, Doe Venison, Dotterels, Fawns, Grouse, Hares, Leverets, Moor-game, Ortolans, Partridges, Pheasants, Peafowls, Plovers, October to December. September to February. October to January. Septeuiber to December. ., June to August. .. August to February. September to March. .. March to September. December to March. July to January. September to March. October to March. October to January. .. September to March.464 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. Ptarmigan, - .. Quails, Rooks, Young, Sparrows, or as Larks ., Snipes, Starlings, Teal, Thrushes, Venison, Buck, Waterhen, or Moorfowls, Wheatears, Widgeons Woodcocks, Seasons .. November to December. May to November. April to May. .. October to February. October to March. .. September to March. September to January. .. September to March. June to September. .. December to March. June to September. October to March. November to March. for Fish. Bream, .» .. July to September. Brill, .. .. ,. .. August to September. Cod, .. .. .. .. October to April. Codlings, .. ., .. August to January. Carp, .. .. .. .. June to October. Dory, .. .. .. ., February to July. Dabs, ., .. .. .. December to May. Eels, .. .. .. .. September to April. Flounders, .. .. .. .. January to April. Fresh Water Mussels, .. .. May to September. Gurnet, .. .. .. .. November to April. Halibut, ,, .. .. March to December. Herrings, ,. .. Vary round the coast, March to Sept. Haddock .. .. ., August to March. Lamprey, .. .. .. .. December to April. Mackerel, .. .. .. .. March to July. Mullets, Red and Grey, .. .. January to September. Plaice, .. .. .. December to May. Perch, .. ,. .. August to June. Pike, ., .. .. .. .. October to April. Soles, ,, .. .. .. August to April.465 ARTICLES IN SEASON. Soles, Lemon, Skate, Salmon, Severn, .. Salmon, Tweed, Salmon, Scotch, Irish, and Foreign, Salmon, Shad, Salmon Trout, Scotch, Salmon Trout, Tweed, Sprats, Smelts, .. Sturgeon, (can be had all the year) Troat, Tench, Whitebait, Whiting, March to September. October to March. November to March. March to August. January to December. January to September. June to August. January to June. November to January. October to June. February to June, May to September. October to April. April to July. August to April. Molluscs, &c. Crabs, .. ,. .. .. September to April. Crayfish, .. .. .. .. June to April. Crawfish, .. .. .. .. August to March. Cockles, .. .. .. .. July to April. Lobsters, .. .. .. .. August to March. Mussels, .. .. .. .. September to March. Oysters, .. .. ., .. August to March. Prawns, .. .. .. .. July to February. Shrimps, .. .. .. .. All the year. Seasons for Fruits. Almonds, .. .. .. .. All the year. Apples, ,. .. .. .. .. All the year. Apples, Custard, 36s. per doz. .. August to December. Apricots, .. .. .. ,. J^^6 to September. Bananas, .. .. .. ,. October to March. Bananas, Sun dried, .. . c ' .. All the year. Barberries, .. .. ., .. July to October. DD466 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. Bilberries, Blueberries, Whortle, or Dew, August to October. Blackberries, August to October. Cherries, .. .. June to September, Cranberries, July to March. Citrons, .. .. .. July to December. Cocoanuts, .. August to February. Cobnuts, October to November. Chestnuts, . . October to February. Damsons, ., August to November. Dates, All the year. JilaerDerries, August to October. Jhigs, (j-reen, August to November. Fig's, Dried, All the year. Filberts, August to November. Gooseberries, June to September. Greengages, July to September. Grapes, Out of door, September to October. Grapes, Hothouse, .. August to April. XldZci iN ULo, < • . . . . All flTO xrfior" . . x\ll LilC yLdi. I^emons, October to May. Limes, (sold as lemor.s,) June to December. Medlars, August to October. Mulberries, July to September. Nectarines, June to October. W1 dl-lg Co, • • • t . , October to Ivlay. Pears, .. .. ,, ... J^ly to January. JTLciUllCb, . • . . , . July to October. Plums . . . . . • • 1 U-iV LU WCLUUcl. JTilJC xTlJJ|J1Co, . . . • . . September to July. Prunes, (Bordeaux Pluuis,) .. .. All the year. Raspberries, .. .. July to August. Rhubarb, .. . • .. *. January to August. Raisins, All the year. Strawberries, .. June to September. Walnuts, July to December. Walnuts, Green, for Pickles, May to June.ARtlCLES m SEASON. 467 Nuts May be preserved by storing them in earthenware glazed jars with lids, like table salt jars, only larger. Mons. H. C. a Nottingham gentleman, who is famous for his recherche dinner parties, has filberts and chestnuts when no one else can procure them. They are sweet, rich, and full of kernel as well as fine flavoured. His wife, a most charming hostess, let me into the secret some fourteen years ago. The orchard was the store- house, where these jars where treasured, some i J feet under the surface soil. I was therefore professionally interested, for in those days I was gathering knowledge; I have since seen it practised in France and Germany, as well as the storing of green French beans and scarlet runners salted, in a similar manner.468 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. CHAPTER XV. Table Decorations, Room Adornments. THE subject of room and table decoration is not the least important item to the would-be successful caterer for dinners, public banquets and entertainments. Plenty of glass and silver we know are standing rules, plenty of light, a sine-que-non, but there are those caterers who never get past the bunches of dried and outrageously coloured grasses, ever- lasting flowers, a few geraniums, and a heterogenous olla podrida of all sorts of flowers huddled together, irrespective of all the laws of colour, grouping, and taste. There are two things to be remembered, contrasts and harmonies, and these are guided by certain laws or rules. There are pleasant contrasts and outrageous contrasts, like the discords in music; one prefers the gentle contrast or discord of sounds occasionally introduced by Gounod in his pathetic passages to the flaring extravagantly wild eccentri- cities of Wagnerian productions. For a banquet or dinner the great thing to study is to pro- duce on the guests a sense of rest rather than irritation, and there must be a fitness in things. One does not want to go to a public dinner and feel as if the surroundings were utterly funereal. The guests go with happy hearts to enjoy them- selves, and the surroundings should be so arranged that the feelings or motives which actuated them should be sustained. In many places the style and character of the table decora- tions are left to the Chef to superintend, so that he may have his dishes in accordance with the decorations and the tout en semble unique. This is especially the case where the Chef acts as caterer and steward of the club and household. ForTABLE DECORATIONS, ETC. .[69 instance nothing could have been more delicately bcauiifal, either in the idea or conception, than the mise en scenes con- jured up at some of the Berlin banquets on the occasion of the noble old German Emperor's birthday anniversary fete in March. A long T table,—glittering candelabra lights,— the air perfumed not only with the scent of rare exotics and beautiful flowers, but also from the delicate perfuming as in our own high-class banquets, of the table-linen, carpets, and even the heavy velvet curtains that shield the doors. In ano- ther portion of this book, I may as well mention here, that a recipe is given for the preparation of the perfumes generally used for this purpose (see page 426). At the Berlin banquet to which I refer, statuettes formed an important feature, and the flowers round each were as far as possible symbolical of the life and character of the original of the bust portrait nestling amongst its leaves. For instance, from a bed of pure white stephanotis and forget-me-nots arose the busts of the late Prince Consort and the Princess Alice. A very pretty miniature copy of Steele of Edinburgh's statue to the Queen- Empress of England, arranged in the centre of a bed of roses, red and white, shaded by ferns of delicate texture and varied hue, emblems of England, also of love, purity, and sincerity. There were dozens of these statuettes ranging in rank from the Kaiser himself to poets, present and past; civic and mili- tary heroes, and celebrities of the great German Empire. The busts certainly were not expensive on the whole, and the little pedestals cost even still less than the busts. The pair can be bought in the Italian quarter of London (say Leather Lane) for 6d. or larger size Is., and they relieve the mono- tony of the eternal display of glass, china, and badly arranged flowers, one so frequently sees at public dinners, besides it furnishes the bashful guest or the unimaginative man with subjects for conversation. At Literary, Musical, Masonic, and other banquets, statues of past great men and absent470 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. favourites will afford pleasure to the guests and add novelty and beauty to the table arrangements. The Easel Menu Cards and Easel Decorations Are also very pleasant and fashionable adjuncts to the dinner paraphernalia. At a recent farewell banquet given by a celebrated artiste on the eve of her departure for the United States, double cards were placed by each guests' cover, on the smaller easel, which was made of paper, was affixed a floral dinner menu card. On the higher easel which was of light wood, similar to that used for Oxford frames and studded with mother of pearl knobs, rested an exquisite Rembrandt cabinet portrait of the beautiful hostess. These were taken away by the guests as souvenirs, for attached to each was a small visiting card, with the words, ** Accept this as a souvenir of X. Y. Z.," and the guest's name written underneath. The presentation of fans to the lady guests at ball suppers and garden parties was introduced about two years ago, at the time of the Prince of Wales's visit to Cannes, when Miss Chamberlaine, the American heiress was the reigning beauty of the day, and dishes, both entrees and sweets, hats, bonnets, and jackets were all a la Chamberlaine, The mode was this, a fan with bouquet holder attached was half opened, and the bouquet holder, such as one sees at balls was filled with a small breast knot of flowers. This was placed in the lily pattern dinner-napkin laid for each lady guest. The gentlemen were presented with flower-tubes and bouquets, and each with a tiny silver yacht, mounted as a breast-pin, for wear with morning dress as a souvenir, a most charming finale to a very agreeable series of dance and yachting parties. One Luncheon which Cordon Bleu and myself super- intended, and which attracted considerable attention fromTABLE DECORATIONS, ETC. 4/1 the uniformity yet variedness of the floral decorations, I will describe. The table was horseshoe in form. It was de- corated entirely with crimson and white roses, buds and ferns. To every lady guest was placed in a ruby-coloured solitaire flower-glass a half-blown white rose, a bud and a spray of Adianthum. To the gentlemen, in white vases were red roses half-blown, with a spray or two of scented verbena. The centre epergne of flowers was arranged in four tiers and an upright vase for a single flower in the centre, a very dark ruby coloured rose was selected for this, being the only one we had for the cut flowers, next and the smallest row con- sisted of half-blown scarlet and white roses, almost buds, with maiden-hair fern drooping over the roses like plumes of feathers. The next tier was of red and white roses of a larger size, but not the largest, interspersed with small ferns, various kinds, the next tier was moss, in which pure white full blown roses were nestled, sprays of fern leaning against the centre shaft were attached by wetting the backs of the fronds with a little warm, dissolved gela- tine, and pressing them on to the centre stalk of the glass at once, a drop or two will be sufficient, and I have seen paste used for this purpose. The lower tier has large lady ferns attached in the same way to the centre stalk, then full blown scarlet roses, the deeper colour to the outer edge of the plateau, as also the darker shades of ferns and mosses. The smaller epergnes on either side were dressed with red roses, the next and taller ones were arranged as at the centre of the horse shoe with trails of ivy hanging down from them, and clustering round the centre stalk; significant of the friendship of the guests to the host. Smaller bouquets arranged in baskets, the handles decorated with ivy, rose- buds, and small fern sprays, twined on with cerise and white ribbon crossing each other, and knots of parti-coloured red and white finished off' the bindings at each side, the colour472 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. of the flowers alternating in each basket, many of the small fruits, such as strawberries, raspberries, cherries, &c., were arranged in little baskets trimmed in the same fashion. They had this advantage that they were easily handed from one to another. Talking of basket decorations, we attended a Wedding Breakfast last spring, where the flowers and fruit were en- tirely served in baskets. They were the ordinary bridesmaid's baskets and would hold about 6 to 8 moderate sized apples. The guests carried away the baskets of flowers the former were all silvered. Those of the bride and bridegroom were filled with white flowers and were gilt. The handles of the baskets containing the flowers were trimmed with white satin and turquoise blue ribbon, binding on ferns and artificial sprays of forget-me-nots, typical of sincerity and remembrance. Another memorable Wedding Breakfast which I call to mind, was that of a fair young English gentlewoman, with an Irish gentleman, holding a high position in military circles. The decorations were shamrock and roses. The roses were made to nestle in beds of shamrock, they were red, white, the pretty single York and Lancaster (variegated) pink tea roses, Gloire de Dijon, every available kind and sort was pressed into the service, not only for the table but the room, and very pretty the efl'ect was, only suh rosa, I must tell you—that a good deal of the shamrock used, was nothing more nor less than wood sorrel, dutifully supplied by the keeper from some woods not a thousand miles from Matlock Bath and Viagillia. Wonderful are the resources of the caterer when he can produce real shamrock with another rocksham, and the onlooker does not know the difl'erence. Speaking of Descriptive Decorations, these have been largely in force, and for the last 4 or 5 years, have been advocated and carried out by us. One of the most recent of473 TABLE DECORATIONS, ETC. the graphic, or descriptive decorations of the Chef's work was resorted to, when, two hundred members of the ** Societe Cullinaire Philanthropique," who are chief cooks in New York hotels, restaurants, and private houses, recently displayed works of their art in the supper-room of the Metropolitan Opera House, made a meal of them after midnight, and danced until morning. The evidences of the cooks' genius were arranged on six long tables, and took the form of temples, towers, statues, grotesque and ornamental struc- tures. The Union League Club's Chef, sent an inven- tion which he termed The Democratic Sleigh." On a glistening white sugar roadway, six feet long, pranced two roasted pigs as wheelers, and one little roasted pig as leader, before a sleigh on which were two sugary smiling Democrats, while behind them was reared on a lofty pyramid of sweetmeats a bust of Cleveland. Some of the designs were quaint. The Boston Tribute " puzzled many of the guests. It was a framework eight feet high, in the shape of an Indian pagoda, with windows and door covered with strings of dried beans of various colours. The entire build- ing material was beans. Cornelius Vanderbilt's cook sent a design of the ruins of Carthage, with candy snakes climbing candy trees, beside candy rivers, to look on candy lizards, crawling out of candy clefts in candy temples. ** The Com- panions were two roasted pigs, in full dress suits and little silk hats fastened with elastics behind their little roasted ears, standing with cigars in their hoofs, beside a table covered with champagne bottles. The stage represented a double tent. Another graphic description given by our confrere Francois Andre, of a Children's Party, where descriptive table and room decorations were the rage, will no doubt interest many of our readers, as the style has been generally adopted with modifications and improvements since its intro-474 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. duction into this country. A magnificent juvenile ball was given at the Hotel X. (an Hotel does not necessarily mean a place of public entertainment, but signifies the large town, or official residence of aristocracy or celebrities on the continent, as the Hotel Grevy, the residence of President Grevy, &c., &c.) Three hundred children were present, and after they had retired, fifty grown up persons who had assisted at the festivities, sat down to dinner. In the salle a manger^ a long row of broad low tables, was placed down the centre of the room. They were draped with fine white napery, which was festooned about every yard and a half with bouquets of charming exotics grouped in the form of floral fans. The apex of the fan was about one inch from the edge of the table. The walls of the room were wreathed with evergreens, made brilliant with myriads of coloured lamps, (oil, float and wick.) The rest of the room was lighted with rice paper lanterns, orna- mented with Japanese designs. The sides of the room were parted off into miniature gardens of exotics, palm groves, arcades and bowers, with tete-a-tete tables and chairs for the tiny dancers. The windows were sylvan bowers, and the corners of the room were turned into mountain scenery of virgin cork, with tiny cascades of water rippling over sheets of tin, artfully inserted amongst the cork, whilst a profusion of common ferns, trifoliate grasses and mosses gave a natural and rural appearance to the whole. A long strip of looking-glass, two and a half feet wide, was placed down the centre of the table, from end to end. It was edged with moss on each side, and covered with scenes; some representing the lacustrine villages of Switzer- land in the bygone days, others white, pink and blue lilies, like those in the Jardin des Plantes. Artificial they were, of course, but the lotus looked real, and a little nymph of seven tried to coax cher cousin Adolphe to procure her one, and whenTABLE DECORATIONS, ETC. 475 it turned out to be artificial, she became a perfect Niobe, whom no sweets nor eau siicre could pacify. The centre resembled a desert, silver sand w^as spread over the glass, studded here and there with dwarf cacti. Groups of arab tents, made of white glazed calico, and a number of very life-like little Bedouins with their camels couchant, rested under the shade of tree ferns. A ruined Algerian temple was near this oasis. A red oil lamp deftly placed amongst some foliage near, shed a soft sunset glow over the picture. On the other side a company of Zouaves, — fierce, fiery-looking little fellows, were seated, and stand- ing round two or three camp fires made of chocolate cigarettes, mounted with red tinfoil. The pretty little Arab steeds, milk white and dappled grey, were a good contrast to the harsh felt mules of the soldier's baggage waggons. Round this centre tableau were arranged fruits and foods from trophical regions,—figs, dates, raisins, bananas, bread fruit, orange flowers and fruit, candied, and so forth. Quite a model, practical, geography lesson ! Then on each side were European and American groups, illustrating man- ners, customs, and products, as far as possible. The French group sat under the shade of a myrtle tree. A Garde Nationale held a tricolour flag behind the party, whilst little wax models of gods and godesses suspended by silken threads, held wreaths of fame over the heads of our people—and showered gifts of fruits and flowers at their feet. The English w^ere seated before a huge piece of roast beef and plum pudding, surrounded by policemen, soldiers, war implements, and so on. The extreme ends were models of ice regions. They were were as pretty as any. Sponge cakes, moistened with white wine, covered with white whip- ped cream and isinglass, strewed on the top with ground popcorn. Sledges drawn by reindeer, wonderful little Lapps476 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. with their mummy like babies, Polar bears, arctic animals and birds of all kinds were congregated round these ice- bergs. The glass was the sea, where sugar whales, dolphins, seals, &c., were placed. A frozen-up English ship, sailors, and some huts were placed at one end. The next decorations I will mention were at a Ball Sup- per given by Lord X. There were two supper rooms, one —in all the splendour of oriental grandeur, with soft falling draperies of blue and gold, divans, settees, lounges, fountains of rose water, all ensconced in charming bowers of large palms, with brilliant flowering cacti; azalaes and berried plants; the lamps were all shaded with ruby glass, or crim- son shades, and strings of Japanese lanterns, reaching across the room, from the four corners to the principal chandelier. The other room represented ocean caves. It was a wooden building thrown out from the piazza, leading from the dining room windows, and taking the whole area of the three windows and the lawn. The caves were formed of cork, nailed to screen work, composed of wood and canvas; large quantities of whitewash were made in which, whilst hot, glue- size was dissolved and mixed, brushed over the cork, and while it was still w^et it was dusted with ground glass dust. This is cheap enough at the glass works. When dry the screens were erected, and propped in their place by rock- work formed of gas coke, which had been previously coated with a light green wash. Pots of green grass were inter- spersed amongst these decorations, and gas jets with re- flectors of glass mounted on discs with red, green, and white tinfoil at the back, were grouped so as to give quite a fairy-like beauty to the scene. The ball room was illumin- ated by electricity. Here are the decorations for a Midnight Pic-nic at Baden, by the Grandees in the neighbourhood. " The wildTABLE DECORATIONS, ETC. 477 flower decorations were a most charming innovation. The grouping, colouring, and the display of feathery grasses, with the delicate fronds of maiden-hair fern, and tall drooping plumes of the lady ferns, overshadowing rich clusters of scarlet, orange, and other wild berries, were really beautiful. To say nothing of the weird splendour of the long woodland creepers, of which not the least remarkable were the bella- donna, and pitcher or cup creeper. Then what do you think of real fungi being used in the moss for plateau deco- ration ; until now I was hardly aware what glorious combi- nations could be produced by the grouping of edible fungi. After the supper was over these mushrooms were not wasted, but were carefully gathered, dried, and kept for kitchen use. At an Agricultural Banquet, the following were the decorations. The table was a picture combining the best arts of the gardener and the Chef. The two should always work in concert. In the centre of the table was a fountain, the waters of which were perfumed with orange-flower water. Around was a border of wild roses and forget-me-nots, the latter in clusters; a kind of basket or trellis work of spun sugar surrounded this, and was reflected by the plateau below. Four miniature fountains, moulded from sugar, with fine white sugar web to represent the water playing in the fountains, whilst flower wreaths and smaller sugar spun lattice work surrounded them, as in the case of the centre- piece. On the cross table were arrangements of jonquils, ferns, and crimson roses in elegant taste, whilst the grouping of the fruits would have done credit to a royal banquet. Some of the baskets on the tables were made on the same principle as the chantilly baskets, with bouquets piped in coloured icing on the top. They (the baskets) were formed of pistachio nuts, blanched, and cut in half lengthwise, sweet and bitter almonds coloured with saffron, cochineal.478 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. syrup of violets, &c. These were arranged in patterns and sugar spun (gold thread) over them. They resembled gem baskets with pure gold setting, and were filled with lemon sponge and cherry jelly. The top represented most elegant bouquets of small flowers encircled with wreaths of green leaves carefully shaded. Among the most novel decorations for Dinner-tables on Christmas day, were the following:—Temples, grottoes, stands, baskets, sweetmeats, trays, &c., all made out of cloves, allspice, and wire-work. The cloves and allspice had been steeped in water, literally pounds of them, and formed into these Christmas trophies. They were partly the work of the women in her Grace's kitchen, who completed the set of table ornaments, whilst the leading designs were from a Kindergarten High-school. This fancy is seasonable too, as bearing out the story of the Three Kings of Cologne and their spice offerings. The electric incandescent lamps looked beautiful amongst the bright flowers and brown out- lines of the clove and allspice work, and the little coloured gelatine windows showed that even in that vast household the remains of hon hon crackers and so?nebodys luggage were not thrown into the dustbin, a fate that often follows lover's trifles. On the ball supper-table were two frigates made of wire, wrapped round with soft darning cotton (which we buy in hanks, not on cards). The wires are easily twisted into shape, small sails are made of white calico which has been previously washed, then the whole is immersed in alum water made in the following proportions: 1 lb. of alum, dissolved in 1 pint of boiling water. The ships are then dried and found to be covered with the most beautiful crystals which sparkle in the gas or candle light. They are then filled with crystallized fruits. A small drop of cochineal in the alum water gives the crystals a roseate hue that is most charming in appearance.479 TABLE DECORATIONS, ETC. To make a Centre Pagoda. Work the frame in tiers of wire and cover the wires with shaded wools, then steep in the alum as before, and when it is dried attach tiny bells to the corners of the pagoda, tying them on with sewing silk. A tiny coloured oil lamp with float and wick can be placed in the centre, lighting up the interior of the pagoda. Stearine Ornaments Are of great value in table decorations. They are not only handsome but economical, as when they get shabby or have been used frequently, they can be remoulded and come out quite fresh again in other patterns. We generally buy stearine or mutton fat from the candle makers. The mutton fat represents ivory goods and is known to the trade as Compo- site. The composite candles are made from this; with it we fashion tusks for boar's heads by melting it and running it into a shape; it then turns out and looks like a veritable ivory tusk, saving the expense of buying real ones. The stearine ornaments are thus prepared : a very hand- some mould is taken, say a group of figures, a lion couchant for instance. The clear sterine is melted and put into the shape ; when it is set it is poured out. From the foreign firms who have agents in London, moulds of every description can be obtained at a very cheap rate, and many of the patterns are excessively novel and elegant. The same mould can be utilized for jellies, creams, blanc-manges, and similar mixtures. Busts can also be made from the stearine,—vases, and a variety of other goods. For these goods, the moulds may be procured in Leather Lane, London. In melting the stearine4 So THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. a few drops of strong acid stirred in while it is liquid, greatly improves the quality and appearance of the goods. The mutton fat is melted, acid being used as before, say you wish to form it into a tree, there are various methods for so doing. Take a large drawing of a tree (bare branches), trace it out on a sheet of fat while it is still pliable. You can then very easily mould the trunk and the branches separately and join, graving them with similar tools to those used in leather work. The wax is such as is used for the manu- facture of wax flowers, can be had at any large artists* stores, and the model of the trunk of the tree, being made in the mutton fat, it can be easily clothed or coated with any shade of green, brown, or whatever is necessary to make it as true to nature as possible. Again, distemper colours mixed in glue-size and kept hot while painting, will permit of any colours being painted on the mutton fat. Ivory trees and mock ivory carvings, such as dummy caskets, boxes, small fancy balls, anything of the sort can be made if the artist only has sufficient knowledge and practice to invest his work with artistic merit. I can not impress too earnestly upon English Chefs the necessity of training their apprentices at an early period to the work of carving. Begin on carrots, turnips, corks and fowl bones, as the apprentices are trained abroad. The reason so many foreign Chefs are employed in our country is simply because they have been practically taught more artistic work, such as carving, gilding pastry, the uses of gold and silver leaf, groupings of figures, if those figures are only penny toys and silver sand, with a few odd turnips and carrots for them to manipulate into little scenes. Tiny boats made of odd pieces of wood, sails of spare pieces of calico and ropes of twine that as likely as not have been used in cooking, are all put into the juvenile's hands, and on his manipulation of these it is judged whether he will turn out well in his profession or not. In our leading cookeryTABLE DECORATIONS, ETC. 481 books, the necessity of these studies is not impressed, and it is simply a want of this artistic knowledge, and a want of knowledge of foreign languages sufficient to enable the young Chef to read and translate, or to frame menus correct- ly, that keeps the Englishman in the back ground. The cook is not a mere working machine, he has to consider all things in his table preparations. The eye must be pleased, so he ought to study refinement and artistic taste; the sense of smell has to be satisfied, so that there must be no predomination of any distinctive aroma or perfume; the palate has to be suited, therefore the keen sense of taste must be cultivated, and as Dr. Kitchener sagely, though not too refinedly remarks, something to the effect that the cook's health and digestive organs should be regularly attended to, i.e., that he must be steady and find his enjoy- ments in a moderate sort of way, So that his tongue may not be furred," and his palate keenly alive to all shades and dis- tinctions in flavourings and seasonings. Having remarked thus far on fat and stearine modelling, I might say that to the higher class Chef a slight knowledge of wax flower making, is quite as necessary as the knowledge of how to manufacture paper flowers, camelias of turnips, cannons of carrots and turnips, canaries and other models of the feather- ed tribe one meets with at Oddfellows' dinners, Druid sup- pers, village feasts, and friendly leads. The splendid work in the modelling and decorative arts, which has been brought to such perfection by English-born Chefs shows that there is plenty of genius amongst them, and that it only requires cultivating to ensure its successful development, that they may rank successfully with their French, Swiss, and Ameri- can confreres. To show what can be done by an English- man, and as a guide to bridescake makers I will introduce a description from a trade magazine of— The Wedding Cake made by Mr. J. A. Massey, Chef to482 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. Lady Jessel, for the marriage of her daughter, Miss Florence Jessel, with Mr. Stern, is one of the most successful attempts yet made in decorative sugar. In addition to the most elaborate decorations of the usual character, the main subject of the cake embraced architecture, human figure, and animal modelling, and many descriptions of natural foliage. The centre subject, which was chosen by the bride, represents the Biblical incident of the meeting of Rebekah and Abraham's servant at the well. In the foreground stands the well, with camel trough by the side, Rebekah and Abraham's servant as in the picture by Horace Vernet, Rebekah represented in the act of lowering her pitcher on her wrist and giving him to drink, according to his request. On the right, his camel stands on an inclined way, drinking from the trough, and held loosely in a leading rope by the camel driver. On the left, coming under a high-domed temple and archway, are two maidens with pitchers on their shoulders, evidently coming to draw water. One is represented as drawing the attention of her companion to the fact that Rebekah is talk- ing to a stranger, and the other with her hand shading her eyes,—suggestive of a glaring sun, is trying with natural feminine curiosity, to see whom the stranger may be. Through and past the archway is seen a camel, laden with presents, and going up the sloping rocky way, and being stimulated in his progress by his driver. Further up the path, or travelling way, another camel also loaded with bag- gage, is in a kneeling position, and lazily munching at a tuft of long grassy plant, seeming to enjoy a well earned rest, under the shade of several varieties of luxuriant palm trees; while his driver, sitting on a jutting piece of rock also rests himself, with his legs crossed and hands on knee, the rock- work being nearly covered with tropical plants. Height of cake, 5 feet, weight, 2 cwt."—B. & F, Confectioner. This reminds me that at a Private Dinner, the decorationsTABLE DECORATIONS, ETC. of the table were in keeping with the occasion. The return of an officer from the Soudan,—and was of the descriptive style of table ornament so much in vogue. It was made as follows:— On a plateau on which the glass dish containing the trifle is mounted, place dwarf cacti embedded in silver sand. Facing the head of the table form an oasis by placing a small but very graceful tree fern to represent a palm tree. Move a little of the sand aside near this to represent a well, and so discovering the looking glass of the plateau surrounded with little pieces of feathery moss here and there near the well and palm tree. Place here groups of tiny models of English soldiers, and amongst the cacti small Arab figures. Near the English soldiers swinging from the branch of the palm suspend a figure of Fame holding out a laurel wreath, while under the tree behind the men is the figure of a guardian angel with outstretched wings. It may be useful to chefs and caterers to know that sugar and other figures of all kinds for descriptive table decorations may be had at all prices from 4 a penny to the most recherche and expensive, from Messrs. Batger & Co., Wholesale Confectioners, London. For our own Christmas Festival of 1883. The story of the Nativity was told as under:—The centre piece was the manger and cave at Bethlehem, each side showing a scene, thus: an arch was formed with four quarters of a circle of stout millboard, and small pieces dovetailed in to make a roof extending half way down the arch. This after being glued together, is coated with common gum paste. The diameter of the circle covering the arch was 10 inches, and that of the arch itself 18 inches. This was supported on pieces of cardboard 9 inches high, and placed from the outer edge towards the centre, their width being 2 inches.484 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. They are double at the centre, and open as we would place a screen near a door, i,e, open about 1 inch., next you, and quite close at the centre. We cover these with rough paste, fasten the arch on the top, and coat the whole with sugar prepared thus : Take \ lb. of icing sugar, moisten with just sufficient water to dissolve the sugar, boil to the thread (fine thread,) add the white of 2 eggs, or \ oz. of gelatine whipped to a stiff froth, stir into the sugar ; stir for 15 minutes in an icing mixer, or if by hand with a spatula. When it is of a fine white, separate it into two parts, colour one half two shades of green, and leave the rest pure white. Now the artist's taste will show itself in the draping of the cave. Fringe it round and cover the top; let it drop as if stalactites were drooping over the edge of the roof. Place a rough coating over the inside of the green and keep the white icing strictly for the outside. Before it quite sets put thin rolls of chocolate, (the cigars will do as well as anything else,) so as to imitate rough wood work. The manger is made of chocolate bars. The straws are spun sugar, and the little figure for the centre of coloured China. On one side are the Three Kings of Cologne, and on the other the shepherds on the plain, with flocks and herds, under small tree ferns, with wax figures attached to the boughs by wire. Facing the top of the table are the parents, and towards the foot are grouped the Roman soldiers, starting for the Massacre of the Innocents. The whole trophy stands on a plateau of silver sand, tiny cacti are placed here and there, and the famous well near the cave, is represented by the insertion of looking glass, shaded over by the most delicate lady ferns and orchids, twining round imitation stones made out of white wax. Oriental fruits and flowers are grouped round the plateau, and on the centre piece is affixed a star of Bristol diamonds, supported on a thin copper wire.TABLE DECORATIONS, ETC. 485 The following account of a scene in Sugar Work Deco- ration will no doubt prove interesting, as showing what is done by the principal confectioner in New York. A grand awe inspiring forest formed the background. There we find exquisitely modelled tall sighing pines, giant trees linked together in the bonds of friendship by strong chains of creepers, like the clematis, &c. This is covered with evergreen moss till it looked like festoons. The branches were snow laden and in the foreground is a par- ticularly pretty snow scene with a herd of deer kneeling— not lying down. Two or three wigwams, (or Indian huts,) are clustered at one side,—and creeping through the bushes are seen dusky Indian forms, creeping to see the deer at midnight on Christmas Eve, worship the Great Spirit.'* The snow on the tents, on the herd, on the men and grasses, &c., is represented by ground popcorn, and is a light beauti* ful imitation of the Beautiful Snow." Once before in this chapter I have alluded to dried grasses and everlasting daisies as table decorations. Let every one suit his employer's taste, (as I remarked in one of my jour- nalistic articles last season,) either in their style of cooking or decorations. I personally dislike those gaudy flagrant masses of rainbow hue that are only fit for a casino of the tenth rate—not for the tables of a good hotel, restaurant, club, or those of the nobility and gentry. May I suggest to country chefs and restaurant keepers, that hart's tongue ferns, and feathery evergreens, primroses, and violets, may be gathered at a small expense by sending children into the woods. A nice jam tart, a few sweets, or a stray penny, will bring you some far prettier table decorations than all the money spent over grasses, that have been dyed with Judson's dyes, not that I deprecate the dyes, only their abuse. I say nothing about the introduction of begonia and486 THE NEW GUIDE FOR HOTELS, ETC. Other large handsome natural got up foilage, but vile travesties on nature should be shunned by the cook and table decorative artist, as by the student of canvas, pencil, brush and paint. From toneless dinner tables, from mild forms of single plant decorations, as ericas, tree ferns, myrtles, &c., we are being drifted into a loud style! but resist it mes amis, it is vulgar, outre, harsh, and our aim ought to be to cultivate the palate, the eye, the senses, in short, in all that is beautiful, chaste and refined : following in colour- ing and style the beautiful and graceful in nature, so that men may know the cooks art is indeed, an art of high rank, one requiring refined thought, beauty of idea and culture of mind.487 INDEX TO PART I. Chap. I.—Public Brewery v. Home Brewing. PAGE General Rules of the Brewhouse lo Good Family Porter ... 13 Household Nut Brown Ale, for Quick Consumption ... 12 PAGE Mock Burton Ale ... 14 Simple Brewing ... 12 To Make Brewing Caramel, or Toning ... ... 12 Chap. II.—Cellaring, Storing, Racking, and Management of Ales, Beers and Porters. Cellarage, Storing, Racking, Cauliflower Head on Porter 19 and Management of Ales, Flat Porter ... ... 19 Beers and Porters ... 17 To Make Old Ale ... 18 Chap. III.—The Wine Countries and their Products, &c. Wine Countries and their Pro- ducts, &c., &c. Hotel Cellars and the Storage of Wines 23 Mustiness in Wine To Fine Strong Wines Wine Merchant 23 24 Chap. IV.—Cooking Wines Cooking Wines and How to Make them ... 27 A Common White Wine or Sherry Substitute ... 28 A Good Mock Claret ... 30 Delicious Sweet Red Wine 30 i and How to Make them* Elder Flower Wine .. 29 Mock Champagne for Cooking 29 Red Port ... ... 27 Another Port ... ... 28 Sweet White Wine ... 31 Chap. V.- -Essences for Improving Wines and methods of giving Bouquet, <S:c. Essences for Improving Wines and methods of giving Bouquet, &c. ... 33 A Mixture for Improving Rum 35 Jessamine Flowers .. 34 Magnolia Perfume for Superior Claret, Bordeaux, &c. 33 Porter Spice ... ... 34 Port and Red Wine Rectifier 36 Prune Mixture for Port Wine 35 Another Toning Mixture for Wines and Spirits ... 35 To Improve the Flavour of Sherry 34 Customs and Excise Duties 37 Chap. VI. To Manufacture Spirits without Distillation, &c. To Manufacture Spirits without Distillation ... 41 Alum Finings ... 42 An Imitation Brandy ... 42 Art of Distilhng.. .. 45 Bourbon Whiskey ... 43 Home Made Gin Rye Whiskey Silent or Plain Spirit To make a Sweet Gin Usquebaugh White Rum 42 44 41 42 43 45INDEX TO PART I. 488 Chap. VII.—Infusions and Decoctions: Tinctures, Spirit Essences, Syrups and Bitters. Infusions, Decoctions, &c. ... 46 Colourings. Blue ... ... 47 Brown ... 52 Pink ... ... 46 Red ... ... 47 Yellow ... ... 46 Another Yellow Colour 46 Essences. Almond Essence, or Tincture of Almonds ... 47 Essence of Absinthe ... 51 Essence of Arrack ... 56 Essence of Capsicum ... 55 Essence of Cherries ... 56 Essence of Ginger ... 55 Essence of Hawthorn ... 50 Essence and Spirit of Jessamine Flowers ... 50 Essence of Lemon Spirit ... 47 Another Essence of Lemon 47 Essence of Pine ... 51 Essence of Tansy ... 51 Essence of Vanilla ... 55 Essence of Violets ... 50 Essence of Violets, Mock ... 50 Essences, Spirit ... 47 Chap. VIII.—Liqueurs Liqueurs and their Manufacture 57 General Remarks on Liqueurs, &c. 73 Aqua Mirabilis ... 67 Brandy, Apple ... 74 Brandy, Cherry a L'ltaliene 71 Brandy, Ginger Liqueur ... 72 Brandy, Morella Cherry 71 Brandy Peaches ... 69 Clove Cordial Gin ... 72 Curacoa ... ... 58 Eau D'Or. No. i. ... 59 Eau D'Or. No. 2. ... 59 Fleurs des Oranges 62 Ginger Cordial Gin .. 72 Kirchenwasser, or Kirchwasser 60 Kirchenwasser without Distillation 60 L'Esprit de Paradise ... 70 Liqueur de Bacchus ... 64 Liqueur Barberry ... 72 Liqueur Chartreuse ... 72 Liqueur Criterion ... 64 Liqueur d'Amour ... 62 Liqueur D'Apprenti ... 63 Liqueur de Battenberg ... 62 Liqueur de Cacao ... 68 Liqueur de Cafe. No. i. ... 67 Liqueur de Cafe. No. 2. ... 68 Vanilla Sugar 55 Syrups. Ginger Syrup ... 55 Red Currant Syrups ... 73 Stock and Store Syrups ... 87 Thin Stock, or Drinking Syrup 88 Violet Syrup ... 50 Tinctures. Ratafia of Quince ... 56 Solferino ... ... 49 Tincture of All-Spice, Nutmeg, Mace and Gentian ... 49 Tincture of Cinnamon ... 49 Cinnamon Bitters .. 49 Tincture of Cloves ... 48 Tincture or Coriander, Carda- mum, and Carraway Seeds 49 Tincture of Orange ... 48 To Make Bay Rum ... 49 Vinegars. Black Currant Vinegar ... 54 Cowslip Vinegar ... 53 Raspberry Vinegar ... 52 Red Currant Vinegar ... 54 Red and Green Gooseberry Vinegars ... . . 54 and their Manufacture. Liqueur de Cannes ... 65 Liqueur des Capucins ... 66 Liqueur des Carmes ... 66 Liqueur de Coca ... 65 Liqueur de Cupidon. No i. 61 Liqueur de Cupidon. No 2. 62 Liqueur Eucalyptus ... 64 Liqueur Eureka ... 63 Liqueur de Framboise ... 61 Liq. de Geneve et Groseilles Noirs 69 Liqueur D'Hongrie ... 67 Liqueur de L'Inde ... 66 Liqueur de Perse ... 67 Liqueur de Pistachio ... 68 Liqueur de Prince de Galle 64 Liqueur des Peches. Nos. i and 2. 69 Liqueur de Quince ... 60 Liqueur de Rosicrucian ... 63 Liqueur de Sante ... 65 Liqueur Maconnique ... 64 Maraschino ... ... 58 Noyeau ... ... 57 Orange a la Prince ... 59 Pine Apple Rum ... 71 Raspberry Liqueur. Nos. i and 2. 69 Red Currant Gin ... 73 Syrups, Red Currant ... 73INDEX TO PART I. 489 Chap. IX.—Home Made Wines and Ciders. Home Made Wines and Ciders 75 Cowslip Wine 77 Apple Wine 82 Damson Wine 78 Bilberry Wine 79 English Hock 76 Black Cherry Wines 81 Ginger Wine 76 Blackberry and Plum Wine 81 Ginger Wine,—Simple Method 77 Cider 82 Marsala 78 Cider, Rhubarb 82 Parsnip Wine 80 Cowslip Cordial 77 Sour White Wines 75 Chap. X.—Punch, American Drinks, &c . 84. American Drinks, &c. . 84, 129 Attractiveness ... 85 Chablis Cup ... 91 Champagne Cup a la Due de Cambridge ... 92 Champagne Cup a la Due D'Edinbourg ... 92 Claret, Badminton ... 89 Claret Cup a la Bourgeois 90 Claret Cup a la Dufferin ... 90 Claret Cup a la Lowell ... 89 Claret Cup, Children's ... 91 Cleanliness ... ... 84 Cowslip Cup ... 91 Glass, &c. ... ... 86 Herbs Used in Making the Drinks 85 Ice ... ... 87 Mixing ... ... 88 Syrup, Stock and Store ... 87 Syrup, Thin Stock, or Drinking 88 Tiger's Milk ... 93 Utensils ,., ... 87 Juleps. Balm Julep ... ... 115 Barbadoes Julep ... 116 *'Erin-go-Bragh " Julep 116 Mint, &c., for Juleps, 86 Mint Julep ... ... 115 Raspberry Julep ... 116 Sacramento Julep ... 117 St. Thomas Julep ... 117 Tansy Julep ... ... 115 Texan Julep ... 116 White House Julep ... 116 Temperance Juleps. Belle of Baltimore Jiilrp ... 118 " Catskill" Julep ... 118 Creole Julep ... 118 " Dandy Jim " Julep 118 Jerry's Quadroon Julep ... 118 Orange County Julep ... 117 Strawberry Julep ... 117 Wedding Julep ... 119 Nips. Criterion Nip ... 126 Nips, Continued. La Grande Dame Le Beau Ideal Nip Le Petit Maitre Masonic Nip Old Woman's Nip Parisian Petit Verre Petits Verres, or Tasty Nips Petit Verre D'Amour Workman's Nip Young Lady's Nip Punch. General Notes on Punch ... Albert Victor Punch Army Punch for Bottling ... Arrack Punch ... Baronet's Punch Begum's Punch Bourbon Punch Bourbon Milk Punch Bridal Bouquet Puncli, for Weddings, &c. Claret Punch Claret Punch Bowl D. W. D. Pot Still Punch Ellen Terry Punch Empire Punch " Encore " Punch Gin Punch Gin Punch for Bottling, Good Gin Bar Punch Gin Punch a la Masher Golden Pippin Punch Iceberg Punch Irving Lyceum Punch Jefferson "Rip Van Winkle" Punch Jersey Cider Punch Kingston Punch Lord of the Isles Punch Maharajah's Punch Marquis of Lorne Punch ... Milk Punch Milk Punch, Another Monaco "Casino" Punch Moselle Bowl or Punch 125 127 126 126 127 126 125 127 126 127 112 99 TOO lOI III 102 106 106 100 97 98 112 102 108 III 94 95 95 94 96 109 105 107 96 108 no lOI 99 103 104 noINDEX TO PAKT t. Ginger Beer. No. 2 ... 168 Bourbon Cocktail, for Bottling 136 Punch, Continued. Navy Punch ... 104 Pic-nic Punch ... 105 Pompadours (56th Regt.) Punch loi Quebec Punch ... 109 Rip Van Winkle in a Bar Glass 109 Santa Cruz Punch ... 105 Santiana Punch for Bottling 97 Vanderbilt Punch ... 107 Whiskey Punch ... 103, 141 Temperance Punch. Broadlands Temperance Punch 114 Lord Wolseley's Punch ... 113 S. C. Hall Punch ... 114 Wilberforce Punch ... 113 Shrubs. Brandy Shrub ... 124 Cherry Shrub ... 124 Rum Shrub ... ... 123 Rum Shrub, A Quickly Made 124 Aerated Waters. For Making Aerated Waters and Fruit Champagnes 155 A Good Sherbet ... 157 A Very CooHng Summer Drink 158 A Very Clear Ginger Drink 159 Effervescing Drinks 153, 154, 155 Effervescing Fountain. 155 Fay of the Woods Champagne 157 Good Templar's Delight ... 156 Making Sherbets and Kali 158 Moses and Aaron ... 157 New Mown Hay ... 156 Pride of New Jersey ... 156 Lemonade Powder, Still 158 Lemonade, Another Non-Effer- vescing ... ... 158 Wood Nymph's Cup ... 157 Cobblers. Brandy Straight ... 131 Bender ... ... 131 Champagne Cobbler ... 129 Champagne, Mock, Cobbler 130 Claret Cobbler ... 130 Moselle Cobbler ... 130 Sherry Cobbler ... 129 W^hiskey Cobbler ... 131 Cocktails. Brandy Cocktail, for Bottling 137 Champagne Cocktail ... 137 Gin Cocktail, for Bottling ... 136 Shrubs Continued. Rum Shrub, Another ... 124 White Currant and Red Currant Shrub ... ... 125 White and Red Raspberry Shrub 125 Slings. Bourbon Sling ... 122 Brandy Sling ... ... 122 Coney Island Refresher 123 Gin Sling ... ... 121 Morning Delight ... 122 Mother's Milk Sling ... 122 Office Seeker's Consoler 122 Whiskey Sling ... 122 Smashes or Squashes. Bourbon Smash ... 119 Brandy Smash ... 120 Gin Smash ... ... 120 Irish Whiskey Smash ... 121 Mulberry Smash ... 121 Rye Smash ... ... 119 Cocktails Continued. Jersey Cocktail ... 138 Rye Cocktail ... ... 138 Terry Velvet ... ... 138 Crustas, Fixes and Sours. Bourbon Sour ... 140 Brandy Crusta ... 140 Crusta ... ... 139 Gin Fix ... ... 140 Rye Whiskey Fix ... 140 Distilled Waters. Elder Flower Water ... 171 Jessamine and Clove Pink Waters 171 Orange Flower Water... 171,172 Rose Water ... ... 171 Fizes. American Fiz ... ... 132 A Stonewall ... ... 134 Brandy Fiz ... ... 132 Celebrated Collins Drink 133 Claret Fiz ... ... 132 Fred Collins Fiz ... 133 Prairie Oyster ... ... 134 Stonewall Jackson ... 133 Herb, Ginger and other Beers Agrimony and Balm Beer 169 Crimson Salts ... 167 Ginger Beer. No. i ... 167 Ginger and Honey Beer ... 169 Nettle Beer ... ... 170 Treacle Beer ... ... 170 Chap. XI.—American Drinks, &c.—Continued.INDEX TO PART t. Honey Drinks, Nectars, Bob's Tipple ... Cherry Jack Clove Honey; Pine Apple Honey ; Horebound Honey ; Ginger Honey ; Raspberry ; Strawberry; Currant; or Lemon. Count '' Gort-Sichakoff." ... Dead Man's Gulch Reviver Dick's Sweetheart Father's Pet Horehound Honey Little Darhng ... Mother's Joy Nectar, A Summer Nectar, Jersey Honey Nectar, Peach Honey Peach Honey Peach Honey Delight Polly's Delight Shaver Town Tipple Hot Drinks. Hot Drinks A Bowl of Bishop. No. i. Another Bishop. No. 2. Apple Toddy Blue Blazers Brandy and Peach Blazers. Brandy, Jockey Skin Egg Flip Grandfather's Nightcap Grandmother's Nightcap ... Lamb's Wool Mulled Claret Mulled Wine Mulled Wine with Eggs Rum Brose, Scotch &c. 152 153 151 152 152 153 151 152 151 151 151 151 ISO 150 150 153 152 141 146 147 141 148 149 145 143 148 148 142 146 14s 146 145 Hoi Drinksf Contifiued. Rum Fhp Rum Fustian Rum Shrub Hot Wassail Bowl ... Whiskey, Boston Skin Whiskey, Bourbon Skin Whiskey, Ladies' Skin Whiskey Punch, Ben Nevis Whiskey Punch, Irish Whiskey Skin, Scotch Sangarees. Ale Sangaree Brandy Sangaree Gin Sangaree Port Wine Sangaree Sherry Sangaree Spruce Drinks. Spruce Beers Aston House Spruce Boss o' the Shanty General's Friend Here's your Ginger My Black Sweetheart Pretty Mulatto Spruce Saratoga Cure All Spruce Ale No. I. No. 2. No. 3. I la Markham. Spruce Beer. Spruce Beer. Spruce Beer. Spruce Beer No. 4. Mock Spruce and Porter. Spruce beer. No. 6. Spruce Beer Spruce Grog St. Louis Oyster No. 5. 143 147 145 142 144 144 144 141 141 144 135 134 135 135 135 159 163 165 165 164 164 164 163 163 160 160 160 161 162 162 166 164 165 Chap. XIL- Invalid Drinks. Alum Whey 184 Apple Water 185 Invalid Negus 184 Mullein Drink a la Dr. Quinlan 185 Oatmeal Water 184 Raspberry and other Cordials 184 Sherry Negus 184 Tamarind Drink 183 Treacle and Milk 185 Treacle Posset 185 Whey 183 Whey for Infants and Adults 183 White Wine Whey 183 -Invalid and Temperance Drinks. Temperance Drinks. 173 Abstainer's Nip ... 177 Belle of the Evening Cup 180 Cadbury's Essence of Cocoa 179 C. E. T. S. Cup ... 182 Eastern Cream Nectar ... 179 Fruit Champagne Powders, Bird of Coventry's ... 180 Good Templar's Punch ... 176 Malin's Champagne Cup ... 177 Nectar of the Peri. ... 178 Persian Temperance Cup 178 Pride of Bournville Cup ... 179 Prince of Orange Cup ... 181 Rechabite Loving Cup ... 181 Rose of the Valley Nectar 178 Sanatorium Hydro-Cup ... 176 Tonic Bitters ... 183492 THE NEW HOTEL GUIDE. INDEX TO PART II. Chap. I.—Kitchen Furnishing for Hotels and Large Mansions. Introduction ... ... 191 Pots and Pans ... Accessories ... ... 193 Stoves Charcoal Stoves ... 193 Sundries Economy of First Expenditure 195 Small Kitchens Gas Stoves ... ... 192 Chap. II—The Cleaning of Kitchen Utensils, &c. 194 191 194 196 Cleaning Stoves ... 197 Earthenware Lined Pots ... 199 Enamelled Pans ... 199 Food Storage ... Saucepans and Pots Soap Stone 197 Chap. III.- -Soups, as prepared at English and Continental Hotels. Soups. General Remarks on Soups 204 Glaze, To Make ... 206 Lenten Soup a la Gladstone 211 Meat Stocks ... ... 205 Milk Soup ... ... 207 Potage a la Albert Victor ... 209 Potage a la Camerani ... 211 Potage de Chataigne ... 218 Potage de Chataigne au Sucre 219 Potage de la Due de Connaught 209 Potage des Huitres ... 212 Soups Continued. Potage a la Kron Printz ... 217 Potage a L' Imperatrice de L'Inde 208 Potage a la President Grant 213 Potage de Schwartz-brod ... 217 Potage a la Sir Stafford North- cote ... ... 216 Potage a la Tortue ... 215 Potage a la Tortue Claire ... 213 Potage a la Tortue Claire ... 214 Tortue Claire ... ... 214 Vegetable Stock ... 207 White Stocks ... ... 205 Chap. IV.—Hor's d'CEuvres. (Little Dishes. Relishes.) Hors d'CEuvres ... 220 Andonilles a la Ude ... 224 Bloater Blossoms ... 226 Croustades a la Royal ... 228 Harengs D'Hollande a la Re- publique ... 227 Langue de Moutons Grillees 225 Lamproies a la Naples ... 229 L'Ecrevisse au vin de Champagne a la Beaconfield ... 223 Legumes de Mer ... 226 Les Huitres de Bengal , ... 223 Mais Vert. No. i. ... 222 Chap. V.—The Latest Styles of French, Italian, and German Fish Cooking. Fish Cooking Continued. Huitres a la Delminico Huitres a la Americaine Mais Vert. No. 2. Mais Vert. No. 3. Mais Vert a L'Inde. No. 4. Maquerau a r Italienne Olives Farcies en I'huile et Truffles Pate de Poisson a la Kunst Verrin Petit Pate de Langue Samphire Marine, a la L. P. Montefiore Saucisses Chaud 222 223 223 225 222 227 226 225 224 Fish Cooking Anguille a 1' Italienne Cabillaud a V Ecossaise Esturgeon a la Roi 230 241 242 234 Jack Pike, to Bake 243 244 239INDEX TO PART 11. 493 Fish Cooking, Continued. Les Barbues a la Newhaven 242 Maqureau a la Temple ... 236 Merlans Grilles a la Prince Im- perial ... 232 Perch a la Graham ... 235 Rouget a la Wolseley ... 240 ■Saumon a la Berwick sur Tweed 238 Saumon a la Humbert ... 241 Fisk Cooking, Cotitiuiied. Shad a 1' Americaine ... 243 Skate a la Czarina ... 237 Soles a la Napoleon III. ... 233 Souchy de r Eau ... 237 Triiite a la Genevoise ... 238 Turbot a la Coleridge ... 231 Turbot a la Prince ... 234 Turbot Au Gratin ... 233 Chap. VI.—Releves, their Variety. Releves ... ... 245 Aloyau a la Marlboro* House 246 Cote de Rosbif ... 250 Culotte de Boeuf Braise a la Royale 249 Filet de Pore au Chasseur 248 Filet de Pore a la Marechale 248 Gigot de Mouton a la Johnston Robertson ... 247 Tete de Veau a la Duchesse d' Albany ... ... 245 Chap. VII.—New Entrees. Entrees. Cailles au Chasseur (Salmisde) 286 Canard a la Empress Eugenie 282 Canard {Canvasback) Sauvage a la Coleridge ... 281 Chevreuil a r Abergeldie ... 261 Chevreuil a la Yellowstone Hotel 287 Compote of Pigeon, Moorfowl, or Partridge, a L' Impera- trice Victoria ... 257 Cotelettes de Mouton a la Due D'Albany ... ... 259 Courge a la Chambord ... 282 Cutlet a la Northcote a L'Inde. No. 2. ... ... 270 Cutlet de Veau a la Milord Earl d'Iddesleigh. No. 3. 270 Dindon a la Comte de Chambord 281 Dindon a la Whitehead ... 275 P-^ntree de Due de Teck ... 260 Entree de L' Artist a la Boehm 261 Entree de Poulet a la Beaconsfield 251 Entree, Beaconsfield. No. 2. 252 Entree a la Bailey Walker 264 Entree a la Prof. Newman 264 Entree Napolitain ... 265 Faisan a la Sir Stafford Northcote 271 Faisan en Sauce Vert, a la "Dagonet." ... 267 Filet de Veau a la Grand Due 287 Fillet de Veau a la Sir Stafford Northcote. No. i. ... 269 Fricandeau de Veau a la 1 rois Freres ... ... 259 Haggis, or Scotchman's Glory 276 Lamb a la Monaco ... 284 Langues d' Agneau a la Prince de Galle ... ... 279 Entrees, Continued, La Pelotte de Neige a la Gladstone ... 274 La Pluie d'Or Entree ... 254 Lievre a la Fred Archer ... 271 Lord Wolseley of Cairo Entree 252 Marrot a la Daniose ... 286 Mount Temple Entree 262 Mutton a la Prince de Galle 255 Ortolans a la Sirene Francois 285 Perdreaux a la Princess Beatrice 272 Perdrix au Choux ... 256 Perdrix a L'Estouffade ... 266 Perdrix a la Victor Hugo ... 257 Poitrines D' Agneau a La Von Moltke ... ... 273 Pigeons a la Due de Cambridge 275 Pigeon a la Prince Imperial 283 Poulet a la Harradence ... 268 Poulet a la Mercier ... 268 Poulette a la Vanderbilt ... 266 Rice Birds a L' Ellen Terry 278 Rice Birds aL'Irving ... 278 Sarcelle a la Gourmet ... 280 Trophee de Becasses et Becas- sinco ... ... 288 Breakfast Accessories. Hamburg or Hung Beef for Grating ... ... 290 Ham and Chicken Polonie 292 Mock Fois Gras ... 294 New Hampshire Smoked Hams 293 Roasting and Serving ... 296 Sausage Meat for Jew's Sausages 292 Saveloys ... ... 292 White Puddings ... 294 Cook's Knives, Carvers, &c. 295494 INDEX TO PART II. Chap. VIII.—Roaj Roasting and Serving ... 296 Game, to Spit ... 300 Hare, to Roast ... . . 301 Ordinary Joints to Spit ... 302 Chap. IX.—Pastry, Creams and Trifles. Apples a la Cordon Bleu ... 342 Banana Riisse ... 328 Barbarossa's Treasure Trove 339 Bijou Casket ... ... 340 Creme a la LTmperatrice Eugenie 332 Creme des Gnomes ... 340 Erl King's Cup ... 338 Le Creme L'Espagnole ... 330 Le Grand Morceau ... 330 Pine Apple a la Victor ... 329 Pommes a la Chateau Treulon 331 Alpine Club Trifle ... 345 A Silver Wedding Trifle ... 344 Blue Ribbon Trifle ... 334 Duchess of Albany Trifle ... 336 Duke of Connaught Trifle 333 Lady Brooke Trifle ... 338 Poisson de Mer Trifle ... 346 Robin's Nest Trifle ... 347 Royal Balmoral Trifle ... 335 Trifle a la Aix Les Bains ... 337 Pastry, &c. No, I. Puff Paste. Nos. 1,2 303, 304 No. 11. Short Puff or Rough Puff 305 No. III. Flaky Paste ... 306 No. IV. Raised Pie Crust. Nos. I, 2, 3 308, 309 No. V. Italian Pastry, i, 2, 3 310, 311 No. VI. Confectioner's Paste 312 Pies and Tarts ... ... 308 To Glaze Flaky Paste ... 307 To Glaze Raised Pies ... 310 To Glaze Rough Puff Pastries 306 To Sweeten Fruit Tarts ... 308 Meat Pies ... ... 313 Gravies for Meat Pies ... 308 Pate de Biftek Anglais ... 313 Pate de Biftek et Huitres ... 313 Pate de Biftek a la Roseberry 314 ting and Serving. Ortolans Roasted ... 300 Partridges Roasted ... 301 Pheasants Roasted ... 301 Sturgeon and Jack Pike ... 299 Confectionery, &c. Pate de Canard. Nos. r, 2 315, 316 Pate de Gibier a la Duchesse D'Albany ... ... 317 Pate de Legume ... 316 Pate de Perigord ... 318 Pate de Pigeon a L' Editeur 314 Pate de Poulet ... 319 Petit Pate de Poulet ... 319 Fruit Gateux. Gateau des Pommes ... 320 Gateau des Cerise ... 321 Gateau des Groseilles ... 322 Le Chapeau de Chelsea ... 350 Sweet Pumpkin Pie ... 349 Tarts, &c. Tarts des Fruits, Sec. ... 323 Tarte a la Beaconsfield ... 326 Tartlettes a la Romaine ... 325 Tourte de Chocolate et Pommes 327 Tourte de Motagne ... 324 Tourte des Poirs a la Gladstone ^1^323 Tourte de Pois Vert ... 327 Vol-au-vent des Peches ... 324 Puddings. American Pudding ... 348 Balmoral Pudding ... 351 Beaconsfield Pudding ... 353 Boiled Fruit and Meat Puddings 350 L'Empress de LTnde Pudding 351 Ponding de Citron ... 352 Queen-Empress Victoria Pudding 350 Queen of Health Pudding 354 Ponding de Pigeon a L'Ameri- caine ... ... 356 Rabbit Pudding ... 358 Randolph Churchill Pndding 352 Red Cross Knight Pudding 354 Sparrow Pudding ... 358 St. Stephen's Club Dumplings 355 Wheat-Ear Pudding ... 357 Chap. X. — Fritters, Jellies, Ices. Fritters. Cake Fritters ... ... 362 Chicken Kromeskies a la Russe 365 Cucumber Fritter ... 363 Custard Apple Fritters ... 365 Egg Fritters. Nos. i, 2 362, 363 Fritters, Batter for. Nos. i, 2, 3, 4 359. 360, 361 Fritters a la G. A. Sala ... 361 Mutton Fritters ... 366 Odd Fritters ... ... 364 Pear Fritters ... ... 364INDEX TO Ices. Ices ... ... 380 Belle Vue Ices ... 381 Cream Ices ... ... 381 Fruit Cream Ices ... 382 Iced Puddings ... 382 Lemon Water Ice ... 382 Orange Water Ice ... 382 PART II. 495 Omelettes, Co??fi?? tied. Omelette a la Vapeur ... 372 Omelette au Parmesan ... 372 Omelette aux fines Herbes (i) 367 Omelette, Oyster {2) ... 368 Omelette, Tongue and Chicken (3) 369 Omelette au Rhum (4) ... 369 Omelette Gonfle ... 370 Jellies. Aspic Jelly ... ... 378 Calf's Foot Jelly ... 380 Cowheel jelly ... ... 380 Gelatine Jellies ... 378 La Belle Americaine Gelee 341 La Quete Gelee ... 343 Lemon Jelly ... ... 379 Mock Calf's Foot Jelly. Nos. i, 2 380 Omelettes, &c. Omelettes and Souffles ... 366 Chap. XI.—Biscuits, Biscuits, Cakes, Breads ... 383 Breakfast Cakes ... 387 Breakfast Cake ... 388 Buckwheat Cakes, i, 2, 3 388, 389 Cakes ... ... 384 Corn Cakes ... ... 385 Corn Cakes, Sweet ... 385 Din^^r Bread ... 387 Dinner Rolls ... ... 391 Dough Nuts ... ... 393 Chap. XII.—Pickles, Pickles. Green Nectarine Pickle ... 403 Indian Pickle ... ... 404 ewish Pickle ... ... 400 ^emons, to Choose ... 401 Lemon Pickle ... ... 402 Mock Capers ... ... 404 Mock Olives ... ... 403 Orange Pickle ... ... 402 Pickled Barberries ... 405 Samphire Pickle ... 400 Salads. Beaconsfield Salad ... 397 Derby Day Salad ... 395 Juden Stradt Salad ... 400 Parisian Salad ... 398 Salad a la Milord Salisbury 396 St. Petersburg Salad ... 399 Tomato Salad ... 399 Dressings, Salad ... 444 Dressing, Salad, German i, 2 446-7 Dressing, Mustard ... 447 Mayonnaise ... ... 444 Omelette Scuttle ... 371 Omelette Souffle au Confiture 371 Souffles, &c. Souffles ... ... 373 Cheese Pastry ... ... 375 Curd Cheesecakes. Nos. i, 2 376, 377 Lapin de Diable ... 374 Macaroni au Via ... 375 Macaroni et Giber ... 376 Ramequins ... ... 374 Souffle de Giber ... 373 Wallace Bannock ... 377 Cakes, Breads, &c. Gaufres ... ... 395 Home Made Bread ... 394 Ice Wafers, White and Pink 383 Irving Cakes ... ... 384 Luncheon Cakes. ... 390 Orange Biscuits ... 383 Rice Cake, A Goo(^ ... 386 Sally Limns ... ... 392 Savoy Biscuits ... 391 Short Bread ... ... 392 Salads, Sauces, &c. Sauces. Bechamel ... 413 Brown Sauce ... ... 412 Curry Sauce ... ... 415 Endive Sauce ... ... 415 Fresh Water Mussel Sauce 448 Gooseberry or Mock Apple Sauce 410 Horse-radish Sauce. Nos. i, 2 414 Horse-radish Sauce. Malpas, 3 414 Lemon Sauce ... 411 Liver for Curry Sauces ... 419 Maitre d' Hotel Butter ... 420 Mushroom Sauce ... 414 Sauce a la Roi ... ... 410 Sauce au Supreme ... 412 Sauce de Maquereau ... 411 Sauce Poivrade ... 413 Soldier's Sauce ... 411 Solid Stock and Flavouring 419 Sorrel Sauce .... ... 410 Sugar and Pepsine in Sauces 447 Veloute Sauce ... ... 412 Veloute Travaille ... 420 Veloute Sauce, Another ... 420 White Mushroom Sauce ... 415496 INDEX TO PART 11. Compotes. Compotes ... ... 424 Compote of Apples ... 425 Compote d' Orange ... 425 Curious Foods. Barn Rat ... ... 456 Frogs ... ... 452 Frogs au Blanc ... 452 Frogs, au Gratin ... 454 Frogs, en Pain ... ... 454 Frogs in Brown Sauce ... 453 Frogs, Live, to Dress ... 453 Goat's Flesh ... ... 450 Goat's or Kid's Flesh, Fry of 451 Goat's Flesh, Ragout of ... 450 Goat or Kid, Roast Leg of 451 Hedgehog Pie ... 456 Horseflesh ... ... 448 Horseflesh, Cutlet of a la Soudan 449 Horseflesh, Fillet of Huitres de terre Au Blanc Locusts ... Mice and Crablets Roast Hedgehog Slugs and Snails Ketchups &c. Anchovy Ketchup Cockle Ketchup Oyster Ketchup Mussel Ketchup Melted Butter. Nos. i, 2 Mushroom Powder Parsley Powder 449 455 457 458 457 455 408 408 409 408 409 Potted Meats. Ham and Chicken Potted ... Italian Potted Birds Potted Beef Potted Game Potted Partridge Potted Pigeon Potted Venison To Cure Rank Taste in Birds Puddings. Light Brown Bread Pudding Millet Pudding Millet and Fig Pudding ... Oatmeal Dishes Oatmeal Pudding. No. 2. Rusk Pudding Savoury Puddings Savoury Cerealine Pudding, i. Savoury Oatmeal Pudding. Savoury Rusk Pudding. Nos. i, 2, 3 ... ... 438, 439 Sweet Cerealine Puddings ... 443 Sweet Puddings for Invalids 442 Tomato and Cerealine Pudding. Nos. I, 2, 3 ... 440, 441 Vinegars. Cayenne Pepper ... 407 Chi hi Vinegar ... ... 405 Garlic Vinegar ... 406 Mint, Balm, Tarragon, Basil, &c. 462 Salad Vinegar ... 407 Tarragon Vinegar* ... 406 423 424 422 422 422 421 423 424 442 442 442 441 441 443 438 439 441 Foods for the Sick Room. Arrowroot and Beef-Tea Arrowroot and Beef-Tea Jelly Arrowroot and Milk Arrowroot and Brandy Arrowroot and Burnt Brandy Corn Flour and Egg J ^lly Corn Flour and Port Wine Corn Flour and Cowshp Wine Starch foods ^ Beef-Tea Extract of Beef Milk Beef-Tea or Broth Percolated Beef-Tea St. Thomas' Hospital Beef-Tea Chap. XIIL— Table Decorations, Adornments Easel Menu Cards and Easel Preparations for Isinglass Isir>glass and Milk Isinglass Blanc Mange Isinglass and Tea Isinglass and Wine Articles in Season. Herbs in Season Seasons for Game, &c. Seasons for Fish Seasons for Fruits Seasons for Meats Seasons for Poultry Seasons for Vegetables Molluscs, &c. ... Nuts Decorations Centre Pagoda ... Stearine Ornaments Chops and Steaks 430 430 429 430 431 431 432 432 428 433 434 435 435 434 Table Decorations, &c. Dried Meat Fibrine Dripping to Clarify -4^0 479 479 Perfume for Table Linen .Prince Consort's Perfume nother Perfume berries, To Preserve MERS, WAKEFIELD. 436 436 437 437 437 461 463 464 465 462 463 459 465 467 418 448 427 427 426